Sony has told owners of older models of its PlayStation 3 console to stop using the machine because of a problem with the PlayStation Network. The problem is affecting people using the older versions of the PlayStation 3, called the "Fat" model. The problem isn't affecting the newer PS3 Slim systems that have been on sale since September last year. Sony have also said they are aiming to have the problem fixed shortly but is advising some users to avoid using their console for the time being. "We hope to resolve this problem within the next 24 hours," a statement reads. "In the meantime, if you have a model other than the new slim PS3, we advise that you do not use your PS3 system, as doing so may result in errors in some functionality, such as recording obtained trophies, and not being able to restore certain data. "We believe we have identified that this problem is being caused by a bug in the clock functionality incorporated in the system." The PlayStation Network is used by millions of people around the world. It allows users to play their friends at games like Fifa over the internet and also do things like download software or visit online stores.
Hip hop star Kanye West is being sued by Death Row Records founder Suge Knight over a shooting at a beach party in August 2005. Knight was shot in the leg by an unknown gunman at Miami's Shore Club where West was holding a pre-MTV Awards celebration. At least six shots were fired, but few witnesses came forward and no-one has been ever arrested over what happened. Celebrities like Jessica Alba and the Black Eyed Peas were all at the event. Marion "Suge" Knight, a controversial figure in the hip hop community, helped launch the careers of rappers like Tupac Shakur and Snoop Dogg. The 44-year-old is claiming that Kanye West and the club's owners didn't provide enough security to keep people with weapons out of the venue. Knight's lawyer, Marc Brumer, said: "He had an expectation of security there. How someone came with a gun into a very VIP party, that just doesn't meet the smell test in life." Knight is also seeking more than Â£650,000 in damages, which includes compensation for a 15-carat diamond earring he says was lost in the chaos. He also claims that he had to pay Â£130,000 in medical bills due to a shot that shattered his femur. Kanye West and the Shore Club's owners have denied the claims and a trial has been scheduled for 6 December in Miami. The former Death Row boss went bankrupt in 2006, so if he wins the case he'll have to share the payout with the tax man and his bankruptcy trustee.
A list of 70 children's books said to be the best of all-time has been compiled by publisher Puffin. Fantasy classics Peter Pan and Alice in Wonderland make the line-up for babies to teens, compiled for the publisher's 70th anniversary. The pirate adventure Treasure Island and the tear-jerking classic Watership Down also feature. The classic counting book The Very Hungry Caterpillar tops the list of best bedtime books. Eric Carle's title sells a copy every 30 seconds somewhere in the world, according to Puffin. The list is divided up into categories including mischief and mayhem, weird and wonderful, and best blood and guts. Toddlers' favourites The Bog Baby by Jeanne Willis and Gwen Millward; the nostalgic Peepo! by Janet and Allan Ahlberg; and Hairy Mclary from Donaldson's Dairy are among the titles in the section called "best to cuddle-up to". Roald Dahl takes up the entire "phizzwhizzers" category on his own, meanwhile, with his classic tales The BFG, Matilda, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, and Fantastic Mr Fox. Dahl sells more books every year than any other Penguin author in both the adults and children's categories. And his sales rocketed by 35% in 2009. Modern best-sellers, such as Diary of a Wimpy Kid by Jeff Kenney and Charlie Higson's thriller The Enemy, are also included in the list. The titles feature in The Puffin Handbook, a new guide to children's books for parents. Published by Puffin, it is being made available for free from UK bookshops, libraries and to download from the Puffin website as part of the 70th anniversary celebrations.
Icelandic singer Bjork and Italian film composer Ennio Morricone have won the 2010 Polar Music prize. The Swedish honour is typically shared between a pop performer and a classical artist. The pair will be invited to accept the award - worth 1 million kronor (Â£88,800) - in Stockholm in August. The Polar Prize - founded in 1989 to honour exceptional achievements that transcend music genres - is awarded annually. It is described in Sweden as the "Nobel prize of music" and was established by the late Stikkan Anderson, whose record company released the songs of Swedish supergroup Abba. Bjork and Morricone will both be presented with their awards by King Carl XVI Gustaf at a gala ceremony at the Stockholm Concert Hall on 31 August. Bjork, 44, hit the big time with her solo album Debut in 1993 but had previously had success as the lead singer of The Sugarcubes. She also starred in Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark in 1999, which went on to win the Palme d'Or at Cannes, with Bjork winning the best actress award. "BjÃ¶rk is an untameable force of nature, an artist who marches to nobody's tune but her own," said the prize committee. Morricone, 82, has composed more than 400 film scores, including The Good The Bad and The Ugly, The Untouchables, Cinema Paradiso and The Mission. The committee said Morricone's "congenial compositions and arrangements lift our existence to another plain". Previous winners of the Polar Prize include Pink Floyd, Sir Paul McCartney, Quincy Jones, Dizzy Gillespie, Pierre Boulez and Ravi Shankar.
A Baroque masterpiece valued at £9.2m has been saved for the nation after an anonymous buyer stepped in to prevent it going overseas. Saint John the Evangelist, painted by Italian master Domenichino, was bought by a buyer from abroad in December, but its export licence was deferred. Another collector stepped forward who will allow it to be regularly displayed in public. It has now gone on show at the National Gallery in London. Domenichino's painting was done for the Giustiniani family in the 1620s. They were among Rome's most important collectors and owned a dozen works by Caravaggio. The oil painting, measuring 2 x 2.6 metres, is said to be the finest painting by Domenichino to remain in private hands, and the most important of his work in the UK. The painting was purchased by an overseas collector in December 2009 but the export licence was deferred - by the Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art and Objects of Cultural Interest (RCEWA) - to allow attempts to keep the work in the UK. Rules allow private offers if public access is available to artworks for 100 days within a 12-month period. National Gallery director Dr Nicholas Penny paid tribute to the unnamed collector for their "imagination and confidence". "The result is a triumph for the National Gallery, but also for enlightened legislation and its efficient administration," he said. National Gallery curator Dawson Carr said: "It is undoubtedly the best work by the artist remaining in private hands and its export would have been lamentable for the representation of Italian Baroque painting in this country."
British actress Gemma Arterton has missed the Cannes premiere of her latest film, Tamara Drewe. The 24-year-old was kept away from the Riviera by promotional duties for another film, Disney blockbuster Prince Of Persia. Director Stephen Frears (The Queen) was instead accompanied by Arterton's co-stars Dominic Cooper and Tamsin Greig. The film is based on Posy Simmonds' comic strip, a reworking of Thomas Hardy's Far From The Madding Crowd. Frears told reporters at the festival that he was glad the film was not in the running for the prestigious Palme d'Or prize. "You smile a lot more. I'm not going to lose! I've eliminated the possibility of losing!" said the film-maker. He added that his film would be a hit with overseas audiences, because "they like that sort of British looniness". Arterton, who also starred in Bond movie the Quantum of Solace, was in Hollywood on Monday night for the US premiere of Prince of Persia. The actress has the only female role in the film, alongside actors Jake Gyllenhaal and Sir Ben Kingsley. Since first coming to attention in the BBC adaptation of Thomas Hardy's Tess of the D'Urbervilles, the actress has become one of the UK's most in-demand young actresses. Having completed a well-received stint in West End comedy The Little Dog Laughed this spring, she will appear in three films over the summer blockbuster season - Tamara Drewe, Prince Of Persia and low-budget thriller The Disappearance Of Alice Creed.
A Somali man has pleaded guilty in New York's court to seizing a US ship and kidnapping its captain last year. Abdiwali Abdiqadir Muse now faces a minimum of 27 years in prison. He is expected to be sentenced in October. Muse is the only surviving attacker of the Maersk Alabama merchant ship off Somalia's coast in April 2009. He was captured by the US Navy, whose sharpshooters killed three other pirates trying to escape on a lifeboat, saving the captain. During the trial in federal court in Manhattan, prosecutors described Muse as a ringleader of a gang of four pirates who seized the Maersk Alabama some 450km (280 miles) off the coast of Somalia. A criminal complaint also said Muse was the first to board the vessel, firing his AK-47 assault rifle at Captain Richard Phillips. On Tuesday, Muse said through an interpeter: "I am very, very sorry about what we did. All of this was about the problems in Somalia." It is said to be the first piracy trial in the US in decades. The vessel, which was carrying food aid, was seized by the four pirates in April 2009. Capt Phillips then told his crew to lock themselves in a cabin and surrendered himself to safeguard his men. He was later taken hostage in an enclosed lifeboat that was soon shadowed by US warships and a helicopter. The stand-off only ended several days later when Navy sharpshooters killed three of the pirates, saving the captain.
Cuban President Raul Castro has held a rare meeting with leading members of the Catholic Church. Mr Castro met Cardinal Jaime Ortega, head of the country's Church, along with Archbishop Dionisio Garcia of Santiago. Wednesday's talks touched on the sensitive issue of imprisoned political dissidents, Church sources said, without providing details. This comes ahead of a visit next month by the Vatican's foreign secretary. Dissidents hope that the visit of Archbishop Dominique Memberti could lead to the release of some political prisoners, says the BBC's Michael Voss in Havana. The official Communist party newspaper - Granma - said the discussions had covered relations between Church and state, as well as international and domestic issues. Archbishop Garcia, the head of Cuba's bishops' conference, was cautious when asked whether the discussion might lead to an agreement to free dissidents. "There will be a process and this process has to start with small steps and these steps will be made," he was quoted as saying by AFP. "We hope that the conversation will go in that direction." Earlier this month Cardinal Ortega successfully mediated between the Cuban authorities and a group of wives and female relatives of imprisoned dissidents, known as the Ladies in White. That resulted in the group being allowed to resume their Sunday marches in Havana free from harassment by government supporters. In the early days of the revolution, Cuba officially became an atheist state, but relations with the Church have been steadily improving since Pope John Paul II's historic visit in 1998.
U2's lead singer Bono has had emergency spinal surgery after suffering an injury while preparing for tour dates. The 50-year-old musician was treated at a specialist neurosurgery clinic in Munich and is expected to stay there for a number of days. He will then return to his home in Ireland to recuperate further, a spokesman said. The band's next tour date in the US on 3 June has been postponed, while their Glastonbury appearance may be in doubt. Further information about the possible impact on other tour dates would be announced in due course, a statement on the band's website added. The Irish rock band was due to perform a string of gigs across North America, returning to Europe in August. They were due to begin rehearsals on Tuesday for the opening date in Salt Lake City, and are scheduled to headline the Glastonbury Festival on 25 June. U2 manager Paul McGuinness said of the tour: "We will make plans to reinstate the dates as soon as possible." He added it was "unfortunate that we're inconveniencing fans" and that it was causing disruption to the band's 400-strong crew. He advised fans to continue monitoring the U2 website for further news. The 360 Degree tour earned the band around $109m (Â£75.3m) in 2009, making it the world's most profitable of the year, according to figures from Billboard magazine.
A 13-year-old American boy has become the youngest person to reach the summit of Mount Everest, his family says. Jordan Romero, from California, telephoned his mother from the peak of the world's highest mountain, she said. "Mom, I'm calling you from the top of the world," Leigh Anne Drake quoted her son as saying. He was climbing with his father and three Sherpa guides. The previous record was held by a Nepalese boy of 16. The 13-year-old has now conquered the highest mountains on six of the world's seven continents. He climbed Africa's Mount Kilimanjaro aged 10. He just needs to scale the Vinson Massif in Antarctica. He has also scaled Mount Kosciuszko in Australia. The team set off from Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, last month, heading for the base camp on the Chinese side of the mountain. While Nepal insists that anyone planning to climb Mount Everest must be 16, China does not impose any age restrictions. Some mountaineers have criticised the Romero family for letting him attempt the feat but his father said the ascent from the Chinese side is less dangerous, the AFP news agency reports. Last month, his mother told the BBC he would do some school work during the trip. Also on Saturday, Apa Sherpa, 50, climbed Everest for the 20th time, surpassing his own record.
Australia has expelled an Israeli diplomat saying Israel was behind the forging of Australian passports linked to the murder of a Hamas operative in Dubai. Australia's foreign minister said these were "not the actions of a friend". The UK took similar action in March, after concluding that Israel was responsible for the use of forged UK passports in the plot. The Israeli foreign ministry said Australia's decision was disappointing. Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said it was "not in line with the importance and the quality of the relationship between our countries". At least four forged Australian passports were used in the killing of Mahmoud al-Mabhouh in Dubai in January. The originals belonged to Australians living in Israel. The Australian government said a police investigation had left it in no doubt that the Israeli authorities were behind "the abuse and counterfeiting of the passports". As a result Foreign Minister Stephen Smith asked Israel to withdraw a diplomat, whom he did not identify "The decision to ask Israel to remove from Australia one of its officers at the Israeli embassy in Canberra is not something which fills the Australian government with any joy," he said. "On the contrary, the decision was made much more in sorrow than in anger." Passports from France, Ireland, Germany and Britain were used in the operation, and in March, the British government expelled an Israeli diplomat from London. The Israeli government has said there is no proof that it was behind the killing, although Dubai officials have said they are 99.9% sure that agents from Mossad were responsible.
An Iraqi MP from the secular Iraqiya bloc has been shot dead by gunmen in the northern city of Mosul, officials say. Bashar al-Ageidi was ambushed outside his house and later died of his wounds. No group has so far said it carried out the attack. The Iraqiya bloc of former Prime Minister Iyad Allawi narrowly won elections in March, beating incumbent PM Nouri Maliki's  State of Law alliance. Mr Ageidi, who was in his mid-30s, was in front of his house in western Mosul when a car carrying the gunmen stopped nearby. Police say two of the men got out and shot the deputy in the chest. But in confusion one of the attackers was unable to get back into the vehicle and was later captured. The BBC's Jim Muir in Baghdad says the most obvious suspects in an assassination like this are Sunni militants, bent on disrupting the political process and deterring people from taking part. Mosul, about 350km (215 miles) north of Baghdad, remains a hotbed of insurgent activities, despite efforts to pacify it. Earlier this week, Iraq's electoral commission upheld parliamentary election results in Baghdad and the surrounding area after a partial recount. Many Iraqis hope the move will draw a line under a series of challenges to the vote itself, and the beginning of negotiations in earnest between the various political parties. No single party won enough seats to form a government on its own. A broad coalition of some kind - including Shias, Sunnis and Kurds - seems the most likely outcome, correspondents say.
An otter cub that ran up to a man as he got out of his car is believed to have been hand-reared, the SSPCA has said. The six-month-old female cub, nicknamed Fyne, is being cared for at a rescue centre in Fife after being found on the A82 near Glencoe village. Centre manager Colin Seddon said it was too friendly for a wild animal. After spotting the otter by the side of the road, the motorist got out of his car to check on it and was surprised when it ran up to him. The man called the Scottish SPCA and local inspector Dawna Connolly took the cub to a vets before transferring it to the Fife rescue centre. Mr Seddon said the otter may have been hand-reared after being abandoned, or losing its mother, before being released back into the wild. He said: "We have no idea how Fyne managed to get where she was found but she's so tame we believe she's been hand-reared. "In 30 years of caring for wildlife I have only heard of one other hand-reared otter cub being rescued, so this is really rare. "Fyne is far too friendly for a wild otter and while we shouldn't be able to get anywhere near her she always approaches us." Mr Seddon added: "The intentions of whoever tried to look after her may have been good, but she wouldn't have survived in the wild had she not been found and rescued. "What they should have done is contact an organisation with expertise such as the Scottish SPCA." Fyne will later be transferred to the International Otter Survival Fund (IOSF) on Skye.
A pair of piglets have been rescued from a man threatening to slit their throats in Essex, the RSPCA said. The man showed the two-week-old animals to a member of the public in an Asda car park in South Woodham Ferrers before making the threat. The RSPCA said the member of the public reacted by taking the piglets away from the man. He kept them for a night before calling animal welfare officers. The organisation said it was thought the piglets might have been stolen. Inspector Steve Craddock appealed for anyone with piglets to check if any are missing. Mr Craddock said: "My initial thought was that these piglets must have been stolen as they are too young to have escaped from a smallholding. "However, I have contacted both the police and Defra and neither have any reports of stolen or missing pigs. "Someone may have not noticed that a couple of piglets from a litter of about 13 have gone. "The piglets can't have been away from their mother for long though - less than 72 hours I would say as, at that age, they would probably have died from dehydration if they had been away from their mother for any longer."
The Spanish parliament has backed a 15bn-euro ($18.4bn; Â£13bn) austerity package by one vote as the country strives to cut its budget deficit. The vote saw 169 in favour of the Socialist government's austerity plan and 168 against, with 13 abstentions. Spain announced the austerity package earlier this month. It includes wage cuts of 5% or more for civil servants and slashes public investment plans. Spain hopes to rein in its deficit and ease fears of a Greek-style crisis. A parliamentary defeat would have been a blow to the Socialist government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Spain's programme is intended to reduce a deficit of 11% of GDP to 6% by 2011. "The result is calming for the markets because a vote against would have been very worrying," said Jose Luis Martinez, a strategist at Citigroup. "But the small margin is worrying considering what Spain is facing." Many Spaniards fear the effect the cuts will have on the economy, where the unemployment rate exceeds 20% - twice the eurozone average. The country moved out of recession in the first quarter of this year, with growth of 0.1%. The European Union has been anxious to see more fragile European economies, including Spain, Portugal and Greece, impose tougher austerity measures. Before the vote, finance minister Elena Salgado had asked politicians to vote in favour, saying the measures were "painful but inevitable".
Mourners in Pakistan have buried the 93 victims of co-ordinated attacks by gunmen on two mosques of the minority Ahmadi Islamic sect in Lahore. The attackers fired guns and threw grenades at worshippers during Friday prayers. Three militants later blew themselves up and two were captured. An Ahmadi leader called for greater government protection after the attacks by suspected Taliban militants. Lahore has been the scene of a string of brazen attacks. The victims were buried in Rabwah, the religious headquarters of the Ahmadi community. Security was tight at the two mosques on Saturday. A day earlier, several attackers, armed with AK-47 rifles, shotguns and grenades, held people hostage briefly inside a mosque in the heavily built-up Garhi Shahu area. Who are the Ahmadis? In pictures: Lahore attacks Analysis: Soft target for militants Eyewitness: Mosque attack Some took up positions on top of the minarets, and fired at police engaged in gunfights with militants below. Police took control of the other mosque in the nearby Model Town area after a two-hour gunfight. Pakistan's Geo TV channel said the Pakistani Taliban had claimed responsibility for the assaults. Members of the community have often been mobbed, or gunned down in targeted attacks, says the BBC's M Ilyas Khan in Islamabad. But this is the first time their places of worship have suffered daring and well co-ordinated attacks that bear the mark of Taliban militants, our correspondent adds. Ali Dayan Hassan of Human Rights Watch told the BBC the worshippers were "easy targets" for militant Sunni groups who consider the Ahmadis to be infidels. While the Ahmadis consider themselves Muslim and follow all Islamic rituals, they were declared non-Muslim in Pakistan in 1973, and in 1984 they were legally barred from proselytising or identifying themselves as Muslims.
The world's longest running radio soap opera, The Archers, is celebrating its 60th year. Set in the fictional Midlands village of Ambridge, it has been recorded in Birmingham since 1950. The milestone was reached as actors and colleagues gathered on Thursday to pay tribute to Norman Painting, best known for playing Phil Archer since 1950. The Radio 4 drama was first described as an everyday tale of country folk but has since tackled controversial issues. One storyline which led to a stream of listeners' letters was Ruth's battle with breast cancer. "There was a woman who wrote in saying 'thank you, thank you, if it hadn't been for me listening to The Archers, I would never have found out I had a lump in my breast'," said actress Felicity Finch, who plays Ruth. Another memorable episode in the BBC soap was when Phil Archer's wife, Grace, was burnt to death with 20 million listeners tuning in to find out what happened. But actor Tim Bentinick, who plays David Archer said people do not always want high drama and the gentle ambling of the series gives it a sense of reality. This week's stories included Tom and Jazzer having trouble with the pigs while Lilian confided in Jennifer about Paul, and Harry moved in at The Bull. "I think people like it when it's not hugely exciting and you can go along kind of, not being dull but every day," Mr Bentinick said. "I think that gives it a reality that high drama doesn't often have."
Eccentric comedian Ken Dodd was one of the biggest recording artists of the 1960s, new research has revealed. His 1965 track Tears was the third biggest-selling single of the decade, according to a newly compiled chart. The Beatles occupy the top two places in the chart and have an additional three records in the Top 10. DJ Tony Blackburn counted down the Top 60 best-selling records of the 1960s in a special programme on BBC Radio Two, broadcast on Bank Holiday Monday. According to sales data compiled by the Official Charts Company, the biggest selling single of the 1960s was She Loves You by The Beatles. I Want to Hold Your Hand, recorded by the Fab Four in 1963, came second. The Unswinging Sixties The other Beatles records in the Top 10 are Can't Buy Me Love at four, I Feel Fine at five and the double A-side We Can Work It Out/Day Tripper at seven. Yet Dodd's track - which topped the UK singles chart for five weeks and was the biggest-selling single of 1965 - outsold them all. "It comes as no surprise to see the Fab Four at number one, but other aspects of the chart are perhaps a little unexpected," said Blackburn. Jeff Smith, Radio 2's head of music, called the chart "a nostalgic reflection of the enduring appeal of the music of the '60s and the artists that defined the decade." Dodd, now 82, has been in showbusiness for more than 50 years. Born in Liverpool in 1927, he is best known for his buck teeth and frizzy hair, tickling stick and his creation of the Diddymen.
Skiing on Scotland's snow slopes looks set to continue into the summer month of June as new figures reveal the best season in 14 years. Since late November, Scotland's five mountain resorts have attracted 373,782 customers. The ski season is estimated to have attracted £37.5m into the local economy. With fresh snow on the slopes, CairnGorm Mountain expects skiing during the first weekend of June. Recent figures from Ski Scotland showed that this season's figures were better than the last bumper season of 2000-2001. Chair of Ski Scotland Heather Negus said: "All winter, we realised we were heading for a great season. "We had hoped to match the figure for 2001, but didn't realise we had beaten it until recently, when everything was added up - and of course, CairnGorm Mountain is still operating, so we're still counting." It is estimated that for every pound spent on the slopes another £3 is spent in the local economy with more than £28m being spent this winter in local accommodation, cafés, bars, restaurants, shops and filling stations. Ms Negus added: "All the ski areas have been delighted to see other local businesses thriving this winter. "Everything really came together for us - we had lots and lots of superb snow, which kept on coming, some truly amazing overhead weather giving 'bluebird' conditions, and, because there was also snow elsewhere in the UK, people realised that the Scottish Highlands did have skiing and snow boarding to rival the best and they came here to enjoy it."
An advertisement for a L'Oreal product has been cleared after complaints that singer Cheryl Cole was wearing hair extensions, the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) has said. In the advert she said her hair "feels stronger" and "full of life", with a "healthy shine". The ASA received 40 complaints that the effects shown could not be achieved since Cole had extensions. But claims that the product's benefits had been exaggerated were rejected. The ASA noted that consumer testing, conducted by L'Oreal, appeared to demonstrate that the results were achievable by consumers who did not wear hair extensions. It said: "We considered most consumers would interpret the ads to mean the product would have an effect on the look and feel of hair that was weak, limp, lifeless, dull or straw-like. "However, they were likely to understand that individual results would vary according to their own hair type." L'Oreal said results of its consumer tests on participants had found that the benefits of the product were achievable and had been recognised by the average consumer who did not have hair extensions. The company said the adverts had not been intended to promise that consumers would look exactly like Cheryl Cole. It added that the average consumer would understand that the effects would vary according to hair type and the style adopted.
Pregnant women in northern Italy are to be offered 4,500 euros (Â£3,700; $5,500) not to have abortions. The idea comes from the governor of the Lombardy region, Roberto Formigoni, who says no woman should end a pregnancy because of economic difficulty. The women would have to prove they are in financial hardship in order to qualify for the 18 monthly payments. The policy has been welcomed by anti-abortion campaigners, but critics have condemned the move as propaganda. Mr Formigoni, a political ally of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, said he wanted to support "the family, motherhood and births". A spokesman for the Italian Bishops' Conference responded to the new policy by saying: "Anything that respects life is to be applauded." Lombardy has set aside 5m euros ($6.1m, Â£4.2m) for the scheme, officials say. The women will receive 18 monthly payments of 250 euros. But the policy has also been criticised as a short-term solution to a life-long responsibility. Writing on the Italian paper La Repubblica's website, Cinzia Sasso questioned what mothers would do after the first 18 months, and said the number of people that could receive aid under the money allocated was "laughable". Sara Valmaggi, an opposition politician, said volunteers who are to work on the project could not act as a substitute for public sector health workers. Abortion has been legal in Italy since 1978.
Environmental campaigners have built a temporary hotel largely from rubbish in the Italian capital, Rome, to raise awareness of European beach pollution. Save the Beach Hotel, taking guests for four days only, is adorned with debris from the world's beaches. Its five rooms and reception are lined with 12 tonnes of rubbish, including toys, cans, car exhaust pipes. Danish supermodel Helena Christensen, who has stayed at the hotel, said it was a striking work of art. "When you're inside the house, there are walls as there would be in a normal house, but they are all made of inorganic waste," Ms Christensen, who is also an environmental campaigner, told the BBC. "And then the outside... is completely covered in everything that we throw on beaches. "And so you can basically just go around the house, and look at a lot of very personal objects, and some of them make you really wonder what made a human being throw this away on a beach." The hotel, which stands beside the 2nd Century Castel Sant'Angelo on the banks of the Tiber, was created by German artist HA Schult. "We are in the trash time," he was quoted as telling AFP news agency. "We produce trash and we will be  trash. So this hotel is the mirror of the situation. "We have to change the world, before the world changes us." Would-be guests at the hotel will have to hurry to book a room: it is open from 3-7 June, and bookings may be hard to come by on 5 June, which marks World Environment Day.
A Sunderland-born businessman has been appointed chairman of the regional development agency One North East. Paul Callaghan will replace Margaret Fay, who joined the agency from Tyne Tees Television six years ago. Mr Callaghan chairs Leighton, the North East-based technology, software, media and communications group. The government is reviewing the future of regional development agencies, but said the North East was a region where agency support was necessary. Alan Clarke, One North East's chief executive, said: "Finding a new chairman to replace Margaret was always going to be a tough task but in Paul we have a worthy successor. "He is a highly respected businessman and entrepreneur - a passionate advocate for business and e-commerce in the region who has worked closely with Margaret both as a board member and more recently as deputy chairman." Mr Clarke also paid tribute to Mrs Fay as an "outstanding ambassador for the North East". Mr Callaghan, 57, will formally take over the role on 16 August. He said: "I am delighted and honoured to have been asked to be the next chairman of One North East. "The coming years are a crucial time for this region and I want to help build on the agency's tremendous achievements over the last decade."
The three authors on the shortlist for the English-language Wales Book of the Year award have been announced at a ceremony at the Hay Literary Festival. Philip Gross, from Penarth, novelist Terri Wiltshire from Newport, and Nikolai Tolstoy from Berkshire are selected. The winner of the Â£10,000 prize will be unveiled in Cardiff on 30 June. The awards are administered by Academi, the Welsh national literature promotion agency and society for authors. Poet Philip Gross is shortlisted for his work I Spy Pinhole Eye, Terri Wiltshire for her debut novel Carry Me Home and Nikolai Tolstoy for The Compilation of the Four Branches of the Mabinogi, an analysis of the origins of the Welsh folk tales. Now in its 18 year, the awards are presented to the best books of the year in the English and Welsh languages. The three works shortlisted in Welsh for the Book of the Year were also announced at the Powys book festival on Sunday afternoon. They are: Banerog, a volume of poetry by Hywel Griffiths; Naw Mis, a novel by Caryl Lewis and Cymru: Y 100 lle i'w gweld cyn marw, by John Davies, a guide to 100 places in Wales that the author thinks people should see before they die.
The Buncefield fuel depot fire in December 2005 was the UK's biggest peacetime blaze. The Hertfordshire Oil Storage Terminal, or HOSL as it is also known, handled around 2.37 million metric tonnes of oil products a year - mainly petrol, diesel and aviation fuel - delivered by tankers and pipeline. The depot, opened in 1968, is outside the town of Hemel Hempstead, 40km (25 miles) northwest of London and just off the busy M1 motorway, which was closed twice because of the fire. Some residents had to be evacuated from nearby housing, while offices and warehouses around the site suffered major damage. Disaster struck early in the morning of Sunday 11 December as unleaded motor fuel was being pumped into storage tank 912, in the north west corner of the site. Safeguards on the tank failed and none of the staff on duty realised its capacity had been reached. By 0520 GMT, investigators believe, the tank was overflowing. The overflow from the tank led to the rapid formation of a rich fuel and air vapour. It thickened to about 2m (6.6ft) and started spreading in all directions. Further explosions followed and a large fire took hold, eventually engulfing 20 large storage tanks. Emergency services declared a major emergency at 0608 and a huge firefighting effort began, peaking with 25 fire engines, 20 support vehicles and 180 firefighters on site before the blaze was finally extinguished on 15 December. The plant - co-owned by Total and Texaco, with sections operated by other firms including BP and the British Pipeline Agency - suffered extensive damage, although the water curtain helped save large areas. At one point black smoke covered much of south-eastern England, as satellite images show.
On Tuesday the Saville Inquiry published its long-awaited report on Bloody Sunday when 13 people on a civil rights march were shot dead by paratroops in Londonderry, Northern Ireland. Click through this guide to find out how the day unfolded. Sources: Cain - key events of Bloody Sunday Find out in detail what happened on the day in the Saville Report The events of Bloody Sunday caused shock and revulsion across the world. In Dublin, a crowd of protesters burnt the British Embassy. In Northern Ireland, it marked the effective end of the non-violent campaign for civil rights. Some young people who had previously regarded themselves as non-political joined the IRA. Two months after Bloody Sunday, the Stormont parliament which had ruled Northern Ireland since its creation in the 1920s was suspended and direct rule from London was imposed. In April, the Widgery Inquiry concluded that the Paratroopers' firing had "bordered on the reckless". It also concluded the soldiers had been fired upon first and some of the victims had handled weapons, despite evidence from witnesses who said the victims were unarmed civilians. The Catholic community rejected these findings as a "whitewash" and began a long campaign for another inquiry. In 1998 a fresh inquiry, headed by Lord Saville, was announced.
The Indian government has proposed a new law which will make it easier for couples to get divorced. It has ordered that the country's Hindu marriage act should be altered to allow irretrievable breakdown of marriage as grounds for divorce. Up until now, a divorce would in most cases be granted by the courts only if there were mutual consent. Correspondents say that marriage breakdowns are becoming more common and India's divorce rate is increasing. Minister of information Ambika Soni said that the proposed change in the law would help an estranged partner get a divorce "if any party does not come to court or wilfully avoids the court". Last year the Supreme Court said the judiciary should strive to keep married people together, but it also ruled that couples who had completely split should not be denied a divorce. The latest proposed amendment, passed by a cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, will include irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a legal justification for divorce for the first time. "In today's day and age it may be a welcome step but it will only really help urban women," Kamini Jaiswal, a Supreme Court advocate, told the AFP news agency. "Rural women will still get a raw deal as they are more oppressed by their husbands. "Divorce is definitely more socially acceptable in urban India," she said. "I have seen a rapid rise in divorces, but in order to obtain a divorce it can take anywhere from six months to 20 years." Official figures on the divorce rate are unavailable but experts say that roughly 11 Indian marriages in every 1,000 end in divorce. The rate in the United States is about 400 in every 1,000.
A North Yorkshire school is ordering all its girls to wear trousers after claiming that the length of some pupils' skirts is "inappropriate". St Aidan's Church of England School in Harrogate said children were "clearly wholly unaware of the signals they are giving out" by wearing short skirts. In a letter to parents, head teacher Dennis Richards said all students must wear trousers from September. He said the school had received "many supportive messages" from parents. Mr Richards said: "Parents who come in have been astonished to see the difference between the length their daughter may wear her skirt as she leaves home and what has happened by the time she is walking the corridors of the school." He said the school had been "seriously concerned now, for a number of years, that girls as young as 12 or 13 years of age are placing themselves at risk by wearing skirts of a wholly inappropriate length". Mr Richards said he had received supportive messages from parents who were "grateful to us for taking a difficult decision on their behalf". Carolyn Brown, who has a daughter at the school, told BBC Look North she was "100% behind the decision". "It's hard to keep a track on what they are wearing and the school is definitely making the right decision." But another parent, Jo Bagley, said: "On the one hand you have got society wanting women to be able to dress as women... but on the other hand here you have a school saying they can't wear skirts. "It seems outrageous that they shouldn't be given the choice." The school urged parents who might suffer financial difficulty as a result of the move to contact its finance manager in confidence.
The Killers singer Brandon Flowers has said his first solo album started out as a new Killers album and that making it was a "lonely" process. Flamingo, recorded over the past year, will be released in the autumn, after the first single Crossfire comes out in September. Flowers has enlisted the help of a string of collaborators including Stuart Price, Brendan O'Brien and Jenny Lewis for his first release. Speaking to Radio 1's Zane Lowe, Flowers said: "This started out that way - it just became something else when I realised I wasn't ready to take a very long break and a couple of the guys were. " He added: "It was weird. Without union and the Killers and that way of doing things and friendship. I had fun making the record but that brotherhood didn't exist. At times it was a little bit lonely. "It wasn't born out of a need to do something different or to get attention or anything else - it was really to make music." However, he confirmed that this solo album did not spell the end for the Mr Brightside band, confirming they're already organising a date to head back to the studio. "The guys have heard it and they understand why I'm doing it. I'm already talking to them about when we're going to get into the studio again. "Ronnie (Vannucci) actually plays drums on this record. "I'm excited. I'm a little bit nervous about it all. In the most part I'm really happy with it." The Killers' most recent album Day & Age was released in 2008.
Barcelona has become the first large Spanish city to announce a ban on the wearing of full Islamic face-veils in some public spaces. The ban was designed to include any head-wear that hindered identification, officials said. At least two towns in Catalonia, the region that includes Barcelona, have already announced bans. Belgium and France have both recently taken steps towards restricting the use of full veils in public. Barcelona's city council said the ban would be largely symbolic, since it was uncommon to see women in the city wearing the full veil. "Barcelona will forbid the use of the burqa, niqab and any other item which hinders personal identification in any of the city's public installations," a council statement said. The ban would cover public spaces such as municipal offices, public markets and libraries - but not the streets. The mayor of Barcelona, Jordi Hereu, said the measure was aimed purely at ensuring people could be identified, and would therefore include balaclavas, motorbike helmets and ski masks. "In no way does it target religious belief," he said. The ban is scheduled to take effect in Barcelona after the summer. The Conservative Popular Party (PP) called for the ban to be extended to all public places, including on the street. Full veils have already been banned in public spaces in the Catalan towns of Lleida and El Vendrell. Others are reported to be considering similar measures.
Switzerland's parliament has voted to approve a deal which would see information on suspected tax evaders passed to US authorities. The lower house of the Swiss parliament backed the agreement, reversing its earlier decision to reject it last week. The move is designed to head off US accusations that the Swiss bank UBS is aiding tax evasion. The US alleges that 4,450 of its citizens hold secret accounts with UBS. It has already agreed to drop legal action against UBS if the details of those account holders are handed over before the end of August. But further delays could make meeting that deadline difficult. The upper house of the Swiss parliament has still to vote on the deal, with a third and final vote from the lower house due on Friday. There are also calls for a public referendum, which could delay a final decision even further. Opponents of the agreement have expressed concern that it requires huge changes to Switzerland's banking privacy laws, which have helped its banks attract significant business from wealthy US and European customers. But politicians and banking analysts also fear that failing to appease the US could result in the bankruptcy of UBS, which is still seen as too weak to withstand the legal action currently being threatened. The Swiss banking giant was one of the banks worst hit by the financial crisis, having invested heavily in sub-prime loans.
Former Bristol Rovers midfielder David Pipe has been jailed for 38 months for fracturing the skull of another man in an unprovoked attack in Bristol. Pipe, 26, hit Rhys Morris over the head with a wine bottle outside a nightclub in Park Street in September 2009. Mr Morris, 29, was left with a four-inch hole in his skull and needed emergency surgery. Pipe had pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Jailing Pipe at Bristol Crown Court, Judge Mark Horton called the player a "talented man with too much time and too much money''. He added: ''A tragedy would be too small a word to describe the tale which has led us to this courtroom." The former Welsh under-21 international, who has also played for Coventry City, was released by Rovers at the end of last season and is currently without a club. The court heard that Pipe had been drinking heavily at Antix nightclub with friends before the attack. He had become involved in a dispute over a woman and once outside the club he hit Mr Morris with the bottle. The court heard that Mr Morris, who needed metal plates inserted into his head after the attack, was an "entirely innocent" bystander. Pipe, who was identified by CCTV, told police that he had no memory of the event. He had made 89 appearances for the Pirates after signing from Notts County in 2007.
A parent has been banned from sending an 11-year-old child to their end-of-year primary school prom in a helicopter. East Renfrewshire Council confirmed it had received an inquiry about landing a helicopter in the grounds of Mearns Primary in Newton Mearns. But it rejected the request on health and safety grounds. The local authority said the idea was dismissed because it had no educational benefits. It is understood the parent wanted their child to make a big entrance at the end-of-term party. It comes as part of a growing trend for more outlandish gestures at school-leavers' dances. Children often arrive at their proms in stretched-limos and other flashy cars. George Barbour, a spokesman for East Renfrewshire Council, said: "A parent approached us looking to land a helicopter in the school grounds. "But we refused that request because the school would have had to spend time cordoning off areas to keep the children safe. "Their time is better spent teaching the children." He added: "We have had parents wanting to drop their children off in limos and even a Ferrari, all sorts of vehicles. "Generally we would try to accommodate as much as we can, recognising that this is a big important event in the children's and the parents' lives. "The helicopter request was maybe just a wee bit over the top." A spokeswoman for the charity One Parent Families Scotland said the cost of end-of-term parties could put pressure on parents. She added: "Schools need to be sensitive to the financial circumstances of all parents. "It's about having inclusive policies and the mechanisms for helping those who are in limited incomes so their children don't miss out. "Children, being children, want to be part of the group."
Police have renewed their appeal for information 11 years after the attempted murder of a former IRA informer on Tyneside. Martin McGartland was shot as he sat in his car in Duchess Street, Whitley Bay, on 17 June 1999. Five people have been arrested but no one has ever been charged. Northumbria Police said its main line of inquiry continued to be that he may have been shot by someone with Irish Republican sympathies. Mr McGartland survived despite being shot several times at close range and was given a new identity. Det Ch Supt Chris Thomson said: "Although this was an unsuccessful attack, it was a cold-blooded, calculated assassination attempt." He added: "Mr McGartland's history as an agent for the then Royal Ulster Constabulary and his supplying of information about the Provisional IRA is a matter of public knowledge, documented in his own books on the subject. "Our main line of inquiry, therefore, continues to be that Mr McGartland may have been shot by a person or people with Irish Republican sympathies for reasons closely linked to his former life in Northern Ireland." Northumbria Police said it was continuing to use DNA recovered from the scene to eliminate people from the investigation. Other lines of inquiry concern a van abandoned at the scene which had been bought only two days before the attack and a message left on a telephone answering machine a few days earlier asking about a van for sale. Police said two semi-automatic pistols and some ammunition were found in the Gateshead area within months of the attack and one was forensically linked to the shooting.
One of the more unusual titles at E3, the worlds largest video games exhibition held each year in Los Angeles, is Konami's Lucha Libre AAA: Heroes del Ring. The action sports game, based on Mexican 'Lucha Libre' style wrestling, sees players compete in arenas used by official administrative body the AAA (Asistencia AsesorÃ­a y AdministraciÃ³n) and other traditional Mexican settings. Traditional Mexican wrestling is a fast-paced sport, with competitors donning colourful costumes, masks and make up. Popular in Mexico for more than 100 years, the sport has expanded into the United States and has started to gain fans across the globe. Players of the video game have 30 wrestling characters to choose from. As is the case in real life wrestling, the aim of the game is both to win and to avoid humiliation - in the Mask vs. Hair contest the loser either has their head shaved on stage or forfeits their trademark wrestling mask for life; the ultimate symbol of pride for many real Lucha Libre wrestlers. To mark the launch, Hispanic publisher Slang staged a real life Lucha Libre event in the middle of E3. The winner was Dr. Wagner Jr, and his prize was to become the main image on the game's packaging. Due for release in August this year on all console and hand-held formats, the game will ship with a single player campaign that will let players customise and improve their character, coupled with an online match-up that sees users enter forfeit matches, such as Mask vs. Hair. Mexican wrestlers have appeared in video games such as Tekken and Street Fighter IV before, but this is the first time that a game dedicated to Lucha Libra has been released. The developers say that future editions are already in the works.
The lead actor in a proposed Bollywood film on Adolf Hitler has withdrawn from the controversial project. Anupam Kher wrote on micro-blogging site Twitter that he was not going to play the German dictator in Dear Friend Hitler. "Sometimes human emotions are more important than cinema," Mr Kher wrote explaining his decision to withdraw. The project drew protests from Jewish groups in India and outside and was condemned by historians. Mr Kher withdrew from the project after criticism Hitler memorabilia 'attracts young Indians' "Thanks for your varied reactions to my opting out of Hitler.  After 400 films in 26 years I have the right to be wrong and still be happy," the actor wrote on Twitter. In a statement to news agency Reuters, Mr Kher said: "Considering the ill-will that the project is generating among my fans, I wish to withdraw from it as I respect their sentiments." The project was criticised after director Rakesh Ranjan Kumar said the film would show Hitler's "love" for India. Mr Kher said he chose Dear Friend Hitler as the film's title because that is how Mahatma Gandhi had referred to Hitler in his letters. But several historians questioned the claim saying that the German dictator had no respect for Indians and that he regarded them as racially inferior.
One of the most decorated French soldiers, who fought in the country's wars in Algeria and French Indochina, has died. Gen Marcel Bigeard, 94, died on Friday, his wife told news agency Agence France-Presse. Gen Bigeard was a commanding officer during the battle of Dien Bien Phu and the Battle of Algiers. In 2000 he caused controversy in France by telling a newspaper that torture was a "necessary evil" in Algeria. Gen Bigeard began his military career as an enlisted man, and retired from the army as State Secretary for Defence. He was called up into the army at the outbreak of World War II and was captured in the Battle of France in 1940. He managed to escape and joined the Free French in North Africa. From there he was parachuted back in to France to fight with the Resistance. It was in French Indochina that Gen Bigeard began to make his name as a commander in a Paratroop regiment. He survived the 1954 Battle of Dien Bien Phu, where French troops were surrounded and defeated by the forces of the Vietnamese Communists, the Viet Minh. He was then sent to Algeria where he led the "irregular" counter-insurgency campaign against the National Liberation Front (FLN) during the 1957 Battle of Algiers. He later told Le Monde newspaper that it was "necessary" to torture suspected FLN sympathisers to extract information about bombings carried out by the Algerian insurgents. In 1975 he was appointed State Secretary for Defence by President Valery Giscard d'Estaing. He retired from the army in 1976. He was believed to be one of the most decorated soldiers in France and had received medals from both France and Britain for his wartime service.
Poseidon Adventure director Ronald "Ronnie" Neame has died in hospital in Los Angeles at the age of 99. Paying tribute to a directing great The British film-maker, who died on Wednesday, never recovered after suffering from a fall, said family friend and BBC correspondent Peter Bowes. London-born Neame also worked as a cinematographer on films including Blithe Spirit and In Which We Serve. He directed The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, starring Dame Maggie Smith. She won the best actress Oscar in 1969 for her portrayal of the inspirational teacher of six young girls. Neame also co-wrote screenplays including Great Expectations and Brief Encounter. Classic disaster film The Poseidon Adventure, released in 1972 and co-directed with Irwin Allen, starred Gene Hackman, Ernest Borgnine and Shelley Winters and was mauled by critics. Speaking to the BBC in 2006, he said he was surprised by its enduring appeal adding that he "never believed that it was more than just an average picture". He was also critical of modern film-making saying movies had "become too frenetic, partly because the stories are not good enough". "So they try to make up for their lack of good characterisation and storytelling by quick cutting and frenetic use of the camera," he added. "And I think that's a pity."
Sweden has celebrated a royal wedding between Crown Princess Victoria and her former fitness trainer. Victoria, 32, tied the knot with 36-year-old commoner Daniel Westling. More than 1,200 guests, including royals from around the world, attended the lavish ceremony in Stockholm Cathedral. The couple, who met in 2002, later rode through the capital in a horse-drawn carriage as tens of thousands of people lined the streets. Victoria was escorted down the aisle by her father. She is first in line to succeed him. In pictures: Royal wedding After exchanging vows, the couple took to the same royal barge that Victoria's parents, King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia, used on their wedding day exactly 34 years ago. The newlyweds were transported to the Royal Palace, for an evening banquet with guests from around the world. It is Sweden's first royal wedding since 1976. Guests attending the festivities include the Norwegian and Danish royal families, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, Prince Albert of Monaco, and the UK's Earl and Countess of Wessex. As Crown Princess Victoria's husband, gym owner Mr Westling has assumed the title of Prince Daniel, Duke of Vastergotland. Sweden's monarchy has no political power, but the king or queen represents the nation and greets foreign dignitaries.
About 20,000 revellers were at Stonehenge to mark the Summer Solstice, each hoping to see the sun as it rose above the ancient stone circle at dawn. Police described the event on Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire as one of the safest in years, although 34 people were arrested for minor drug offences. Sunrise, marking the longest day of the year north of the equator, occurred over the circle at 0452 BST. The Heel Stone, just outside the main circle, aligns with the rising sun. Peter Carson from English Heritage said: "It has been quieter this year but it's been a great solstice. "It's an improvement on the last few years - the last time I remember seeing the sun rise was in 2003 - so it's great to see the sun has put in an appearance. "This year there are about 20,000 people and last year it was about 35,000 - so that is quite a bit down which has meant the operation is a lot easier. " He said two years ago the solstice happened early on a Saturday and about 30,000 people attended. He added: "I think the days of the week do make a considerable difference to the number of people who come along - this year it's a Monday morning. "The people who are streaming out now -  a lot of them are going to work." Victoria Campbell, 29, was among those marking the solstice. She said: "It means a lot to us...being British and following our pagan roots." The Londoner, who works in the finance industry, added "getting away from the city" was a major draw. On Sunday police chiefs said they had planned for "all eventualities" ahead of the event. Last year a record 36,500 revellers attended, causing traffic chaos and road closures.
The interior ministry in Taiwan is to organise matchmaking activities for its unmarried staff to improve the birth rate, one of the lowest in the world. The ministry, in charge of Taiwan's population policy, says events should take place at least once a year in every agency under its control. Officials suggested departments that have single women team up with the police, who have many unattached men. In 2009, Taiwan's birth rate stood at 1.0 births per woman. This is well below the replacement rate of 2.1. "As the agency in charge of the country's population policy, the interior ministry should serve as an example in boosting the birth rate," Interior Minister Jiang Yi-huah said. At a recent meeting of senior ministry officials where the proposal was discussed, some people expressed concern that high-profile matchmaking activities could impose undue pressure on unmarried workers, Taiwan media reported. One senior official, who at the meeting offered one of his staff time off to take part in the matchmaking activities, said to the employee, who often works overtime: "You are my responsibility now", according to reports. In March, the Taiwanese authorities announced they were seeking a new slogan to boost the island's falling birth-rate and offered a cash prize for the best submission. And in February, the authorities announced plans to help finance fertility treatment for young couples struggling to get pregnant, in another effort to arrest the decline in births.
Scorpions, parakeets and turtles have all been found living wild in the UK, according to a new study. The study, led by the University of Hull, studied sightings and population numbers for creatures introduced into Britain over the last 150 years. It found 13,000 yellow-tailed scorpions and between 30,000 and 50,000 ring-necked parakeets in south-east England. About 10 coatis, which are also known as Brazilian aardvarks, and about 20 snapping turtles were also found. The coatis, which are members of the racoon family and hail from North America, are thought to be living wild in Cumbria. The snapping turtles, also from North America, are believed to be living in parts of Kent, London, the West Midlands and West Yorkshire. The scorpions originate from north-west Africa and southern Europe and the ring-necked parakeets come from Africa and Asia. Report author Dr Toni Bunnell, of the University of Hull, said it was thought some of the animals had originally been kept as pets but were released when their owners could no longer look after them. "If you get enough turfed out in the same area and they can survive and the habitat suits them, then you have got a breeding population. That seems to be what's happening." She added that other species were thought to have escaped from private collections. The report was commissioned by the Eden television channel.
An ancient Egyptian city believed to be Avaris, the capital of the Hyksos people who ruled 3,500 years ago, has been located by radar, Egypt's culture ministry says. A team of Austrian archaeologists used radar imaging to find the underground outlines of the city in the Nile Delta, a now densely populated area. The Hyksos were foreign occupiers from Asia who ruled Egypt for a century. Avaris was their summer capital, near what is now the town of Tal al-Dabaa. The radar images show the outlines of streets and houses underneath the green farm fields and modern towns in Egypt's Delta. Egyptian antiquities chief Zahi Hawass said in a statement that the area could be part of Avaris, the summer capital of the Hyksos who ruled Egypt from 1664-1569 BC, during the 15th Dynasty. "The pictures taken using radar [imaging] show an underground city complete with streets, houses and tombs which gives a general overview of the urban planning of the city," Dr Hawass said in a statement. Irene Mueller, who heads the Austrian team, said the main purpose of the project had been to determine how far the underground city extended. "The aim of the geophysical survey was to identify the size of the ancient city and the mission managed to identify a large number of houses and streets and a port inside the city," she said. "The mission also identified one of the Nile river tributaries that passed through the city, as well as two islands," she was quoted as saying in the statement.
Conservative peer Lord Peter Walker of Worcester has died from cancer at the age of 78. The former energy secretary and Welsh secretary died at the city's St Richard's Hospice. Lord Walker was MP for Worcester from 1961 to 1992. His son Robin won the seat for the Tories last month. He was Environment Secretary and Trade and Industry Secretary under Edward Heath, and Energy Secretary and Welsh Secretary under Margaret Thatcher. Lord Walker was appointed a life peer after retiring as an MP in 1992. In a statement, Lord Walker's family said: "As a politician, he always believed in the importance of helping those most in need, combining efficiency with compassion. "He was a true one-nation Conservative and a patriot. His great personal compassion was always reflected in his private life." Wales Office Minister David Jones paid tribute to Lord Walker during Wales Questions in the House of Commons, describing him as  "a true friend of Wales". The current Secretary of State, Cheryl Gillan said her thoughts were with the family of Lord Walker, a sentiment echoed by Plaid Cymru's Parliamentary leader, Elfyn Llwyd. Lord Walker entered Parliament in 1961 and two years later was made parliamentary private secretary to the then leader of the Commons, Selwyn Lloyd. He was regarded as a close ally of Mr Heath, who brought him into the cabinet in 1970 as environment secretary - making him the first environment minister anywhere in the world. Mrs Thatcher made him agriculture minister following her 1979 General Election victory. In 1983 she made him energy secretary, giving him a frontline role in combating the miners' strike of 1984 to 1985. In 1987 he was moved to Welsh secretary - a post he held until 1990, when he finally bowed out of government.
Former world boxing champion Eamonn Magee has been jailed for 12 months for an assault on his ex-partner. The trial was told the 38-year-old, from Eskdale Gardens in Belfast, grabbed the woman by her hair and tried to throw her down stairs in September. The ex-WBU welterweight title holder was given the maximum sentence for the offence, but was released on bail pending an appeal. He was ordered to stay at an address in Hull pending the appeal. Magee was also banned from any contact with the victim and banned from taking alcohol. The victim of the attack, Maria Magill, had been in a relationship with Magee for six years. She said he attacked her after the couple had been out at a concert and then drinking in a bar last September. In her evidence to Belfast Magistrates Court, she said they returned to a flat at Glenview Street where Magee asked her to get into bed and then demanded to see her mobile phone to check if another man had been contacting her. She claimed he grabbed her by the hair, slapped her and trailed out of the room before attempting to throw her down a flight of stairs.
Argentina says it has achieved a debt swap that moves it a step closer to resolving the difficulties caused by its huge default eight years ago. Creditors agreed to exchange two thirds of its outstanding bad debt for new bonds, in a deal worth around $12bn. The deal means Argentina has now settled 92% of the bad debt left from its sovereign default in 2001. The government hopes it will now be able to raise new international loans at better interest rates. "This is a very important step that gets rid of what has been the most severe restriction on the Argentine economy in recent decades", President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said. About $6bn in Argentine bonds are still held by "hold-out" creditors who rejected the swap and an earlier restructuring in 2005. They are demanding full repayment, and analysts say lawsuits could still limit Argentina's ability to raise money on international markets. The government has condemned the outstanding creditors as "vulture funds" - a term for investors that buy sovereign debt at a discount and sue to recover its full value. Latin America's third-biggest economy has been trying to rebuild its reputation with international investors, which was shattered by the 2001 sovereign default. Argentina defaulted on around $95bn of bonds, a record amount at the time, but its economy has since recovered. President Cristina Fernandez's predecessor, her husband Nestor Kirchner, restructured most of the debt, and repaid money borrowed from the International Monetary Fund.
The US government has pledged $48m (Â£32m) in aid to help ease the humanitarian crisis in Kyrgyzstan. The US state department said the money would be spent on serving the needs of some 400,000 people displaced by the recent ethnic violence in the south. Kyrgyzstan's interim authorities say as many as 2,000 people died in clashes between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbeks. It is two weeks since violence began in the southern city of Osh. A state of emergency remains in force. The authorities say that of the estimated 100,000 who fled across the border into neighbouring Uzbekistan nearly all have returned to their homes. Many others have not, wary that more violence could be on the way. The authorities are under pressure to keep security tight in the build up to a referendum on constitutional reform planned for Sunday. Clearly not everything is going according to plan: the central election committee said six of its Uzbek workers were kidnapped briefly on Wednesday before being released unharmed. In all this, it is important to remember the volatile political situation this country finds itself in only three months since President Kurmanbek Bakiyev was overthrown after days of protests. The interim authorities - put to the test by the destabilising events of the last fortnight - now need to prove their worth by holding a peaceful referendum. The West has tentatively backed the vote.
A council facing a £10m deficit over five years has agreed a package of £1m of savings, which includes job cuts. South Northamptonshire Council announced nine vacant posts, including a head of service, will not be filled and another four jobs will go. The council said the aim to minimise cuts to frontline services and officers would focus on improving the efficiency of the local authority. It said it hoped to avoid charge increases, but could not rule them out. Ian McCord, portfolio holder for resources at the council, said: "Further cost reductions will be required. "When reductions in central government grants and other external factors become clearer, we will announce what further steps need to be taken. "We will continue to provide the services that our residents need in a cost effective way, and to look at other innovative ways to tackle this issue. "The council has an estimated five-year deficit in its revenue budget of nearly £10m as a result of the recession. "This is due to the associated loss of income, anticipated cuts in the revenue support grant, and changes in funding for services such as concessionary fares. Consequently, councillors have some very difficult financial decisions to make." The decision to find £1m of savings was made at a full meeting of the council on Wednesday.
A public consultation has opened into a £250m resort planned for Cornwall. Plans by the Commercial Estates Group for the development in Carlyon Bay were halted when a public inquiry rejected them last year. The group said it had new proposals for the plans and that people had the chance to look at the development brief until 26 June and give their views. The company said it would then submit a fresh planning application to Cornwall Council in the autumn. Planning permission was first granted in 1991 for the project near St Austell - which includes more than 500 holiday apartments - and sea defences were originally built to protect the apartments and construction workers. But when developers applied to upgrade the defences, opponents claimed they were too big, unsafe, and could damage the environment. The company said it was now working with the council and using feedback from other consultations in the hope the plans would meet with local people's approval. The Commercial Estates Group said the new plans included defences which would be set back about 27m (90ft) from the front line of the previously refused scheme. Exhibitions of the plans are being held at the project's Information Centre at Crinnis Beach, Carlyon Bay, until Saturday, and at The Engine House, Fore Street, St Austell on Friday.
Stirling Council has agreed to back legal action which could prevent quarrying at a historic battle site. Permission to quarry at Gillies Hill, the site of the Battle of Bannockburn, was granted in 1982, but there has been little activity for 14 years. However, protesters are worried that the reactivation of large-scale quarrying would destroy the hill. A voluntary agreement with the quarriers will be sought before legal action is taken. Stirling Council said it shared "significant concerns" with the people of Cambusbarron about the possible resumption of quarrying. Councillors pledged on Thursday evening to help secure a written commitment from the quarry operators that they will not restart work before 2017, when the conditions are next reviewed. If this fails, the council said it would fund any legal action taken by Cambusbarron Community Council. A court order could force Tarmac and Hanson - the two companies with permission to operate Murrayshall Quarry - to agree to an Environmental Impact Assessment. The assessment should have been carried out in 2002 when permission was last reviewed. Both companies have said they have no plans to restart quarrying at Gillies Hill before 2017, but technically could begin work at any time. Gillies Hill is reputedly where Robert the Bruce's followers took shelter during the 1314 Battle of Bannockburn before their charge on the enemy. When they emerged from the woods south of Stirling on 24 June 1314, the English army took fright, mistaking them for Scottish reinforcements. On Sunday, a march organised by the Save Gillies Hill group re-enacted the "descent of the gillies" after a piper-led procession. The area is also home to red squirrels, peregrine falcons and a Scots Pine which the Forestry Commission has designated as one of Scotland's top 100 heritage trees.
A US surgeon, dubbed "Doctor Death" by Australian media, has been found guilty of the manslaughter of three patients in his care in Australia. Jayant Patel, an Indian-born US citizen, worked at a Queensland hospital between 2003 and 2005. He was also convicted of grievous bodily harm against a fourth patient. Patel will be sentenced on Thursday. Before arriving in Australia, Patel had been banned from conducting surgery in the US states of New York and Oregon. The 12-man jury at the Brisbane Supreme Court reached their decision after about 50 hours of deliberation. During the 14-week trial, the court heard that Patel had botched operations, misdiagnosed patients, removed healthy organs and used sloppy surgical techniques during his time at Bundaberg Base Hospital. Nurses used to hide patients from him, because of their concerns about the quality of his work, the court heard. One of his patients died having had his bowel removed unnecessarily. Patel had pleaded not guilty to the manslaughter of Gerry Kemps, James Phillips, and Mervyn Morris, and causing grievous bodily harm to Ian Vowles. Prosecutors argued that Patel's operations were well below the standard of a competent surgeon. The 60-year-old's defence team claimed throughout the trial that he acted in the interests of his patients. His wife left the court in tears as her husband was led from the dock to the cells, Australian media reported. The BBC's Nick Bryant in Sydney says the Australian health system is heavily reliant on foreign doctors. The highly-publicised case has raised wider concerns in the community about their qualifications and competency, our correspondent says.
A black councillor who called an Asian colleague a "coconut" will appeal against her conviction for racial harassment, her solicitor has said. Liberal Democrat Shirley Brown used the derogatory remark against Conservative Jay Jethwa at a Bristol City Council debate last year. She was given a conditional discharge at Bristol Magistrates' Court on Monday after being found guilty. Solicitor Greg Foxsmith said she was a champion for diversity. Mr Foxsmith said: "To have spent all her life championing diversity and community cohesion and she now has a race conviction. "It's extraordinary, particularly while real race hate crimes go unpunished and uninvestigated." The term coconut has been used to accuse someone of betraying their race or culture by implying that, like a coconut, they are brown on the outside but white on the inside. Mrs Jethwa did not hear the insult during the meeting but watched it later on the council's webcast. Mrs Jethwa, who moved to England from India 24 years ago, had proposed to cut funding to the city's Legacy Commission, set up to educate people on the abolition of the slave trade, during the debate on 24 February last year. She said that it did not make sense to spend Â£750,000 of taxpayers' money "righting the wrongs of slavery". Mr Foxsmith said Brown "took exception" to the cuts and added: "She said in our community there's a word for people like you and that word is coconut. "You have abandoned your ethnic roots, I suppose is what it means." The Conservative Party lodged a formal complaint and Brown apologised for her remarks. In July, Brown was suspended for a month by the council's Standards Committee but this was overturned on appeal. Avon and Somerset police then received a complaint and Brown was prosecuted.
Relics of some of the first stirrings of modern life may have been uncovered. Scientists report in the journal Nature the discovery of centimetre-sized fossils they suggest are the earliest known examples of multicellular life. The specimens, from Gabon, are 2.1 billion years old - 200 million years older than for any previous claim. Abderrazak El Albani and colleagues describe the fossils' distinctive appearance as resembling irregularly shaped "wrinkly cookies". The step from single-celled to multicellular organisation was a key step in the evolution of life on Earth and set the scene for the eventual emergence of all complex organisms, including animals and plants. The big question is whether the new West African specimens truly represent large organisms growing in a co-ordinated manner, or are merely a record of the remains of aggregations of unicellular bacteria. The team tells Nature that its analysis of the fossils' three-dimensional structure using X-ray microtomography leans it towards the former explanation. The fossils would have existed during a period in Earth history that came shortly after the so-called Great Oxidation Event, when free oxygen concentrations in the atmosphere rose rapidly. Another oxygen surge that occurred about half a billion years ago co-incided with the Cambrian Explosion - the huge spurt in evolution that established all the major animal groupings. "The evolution of the Gabon macrofossils, representing an early step toward large-sized multicellularity, may have become possible by the first boost in oxygen," Dr El Albani and colleagues said in a statement, "whereas the Cambrian Explosion could have been fuelled by the second. "Why it took 1.5 billion years for the multicellular organisms to take over is currently one of the great unsolved mysteries in the history of the biosphere."
Aberdonians who were involved in health research nearly 50 years ago have been asked to sign up to another study. Those who participated in the Aberdeen Children of the 1950s project, which saw all primary pupils aged seven to 12 surveyed by the Medical Research Council in 1962, have been contacted. They have been asked to take part in the Scottish Family Health Study, which is recruiting 50,000 people. It aims to investigate why diseases such as cancer can run in families. Those recruited will have their health tracked, with the intention of creating a Scottish "bio-bank" containing genetic, medical and family history and lifestyle information. This will allow researchers to investigate the contribution of genetic and environmental factors to common conditions. Blair Smith, a GP and professor of primary care medicine at Aberdeen University, will run the project. He said: "We know that many diseases such as cancer, heart disease, mental illness and diabetes run in families and that tells us that genes are important. "But we don't know yet which genes are important or how they relate to other things such as lifestyle. "We can get more information about genes by studying DNA which carries the genetic blueprint handed down through the generations. "That is why we are collecting and analysing blood samples and health information from thousands of families across Scotland." He said the data gathered would help future research into the prevention, treatment and diagnosis of illnesses.
Deputy PM Nick Clegg's pledge to retain island seats in the UK parliament has been welcomed in Scotland. He plans to cut the number of MPs from 650 to 600 and review constituencies before the 2015 election. The Boundary Commission is to be asked to redraw the constituency map, so each has roughly the same number of voters However, Orkney and Shetland and the Western Isles would be exempt because they were "uniquely placed given their locations", Mr Clegg told MPs. It had been feared that the island seats - which are small in terms of population - could disappear and that this would lead to their distinctive needs not being represented to the same extent in the UK Parliament. SNP MP for Na h-Eileanan Iar, Angus MacNeil MP, said the announcement was a "victory for common sense". "I have long argued that island constituencies are unique and cannot be parcelled up into neat population bundles in the same way as inner city seats," Mr MacNeil said. "The announcement by the UK Government today is welcome recognition of this." The leader of Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, Angus Campbell, said it was "good news for the Western Isles". He said: "I am pleased that the Government has recognised the case that the Comhairle has made. "If we had been tagged on to the west coast of Scotland the geography would have made it very difficult for an MP to properly represent constituents in such a spread out area. This is a common sense decision that will be warmly welcomed throughout the Western Isles."
Details have emerged of a Chinese gang accused of running a sophisticated online betting network in the run-up to the World Cup, state media reports. The gang, which was broken up last month, is alleged to have accumulated more than 100bn yuan (Â£9.7bn; $14.8bn). China had pledged to crack down on online football gambling during the championships in South Africa. Gambling is banned in China, although small bets can be placed through state-run lotteries. The alleged ringleader of the gang went by the name "Dark Brother". Chinese newspapers said he was arrested as he left what was described as "a cocaine-fuelled nightclub party" last month in Shenzhen, the sprawling metropolis that neighbours Hong Kong. The alleged kingpin, who is from Hong Kong, is accused of running a tightly-organised network that stretched across southern and eastern China, taking bets over the internet. An accomplice known as "Old Cat" allegedly helped run the operation from an apartment where she lived with her child. "The ringleader of a gambling gang? I never saw that!" was the reaction from local officials when told of her arrest. Gambling is illegal in China, but the Chinese Centre for Lottery Studies estimates that more than $87bn is gambled by Chinese punters through offshore betting networks. China's football team did not make it to the World Cup, but that didn't dampen the enthusiasm of fans, many of whom were keen to bet on the matches. As China debates why its national football team's performance is so dismal, the state news agency Xinhua has warned that the country has little chance of creating football legends in an environment full of gambling, fraud, greed and ignorance.
A peregrine falcon found injured in Guernsey and nursed back to health in Hampshire was probably left unable to fly after a seagull vomited over it. The female bird was found hopping in the road in early June with its wings coated in an unknown substance. Conservationists initially thought it had been caught in a glue trap but tests showed the oily substance was "partially digested fish matter". The falcon was released into the wild again last week. It was flown in a private plane from Guernsey for treatment at the Hawk Conservancy Trust's specialist bird of prey hospital in Andover, and back again. Scientists analysed a sample of the bird's feathers and found that the substance coating them was a natural ester-based oil - which includes vegetable, seed and fish matter - with a high presence of sand and soil. Ashley Smith, chief executive officer of the Hawk Conservancy Trust, said: "The results have presented a totally different scenario to the one first imagined when she was found. "We now believe that the peregrine may have preyed upon seabirds, possibly a gull, which has used its primary defence mechanism of projectile vomiting to escape her. "The partially-digested fish matter would have coated her feathers and she would then have tried to clean herself by dust bathing. "This would explain the high presence of sand and soil in the sample, which had encrusted her feathers and prevented her from flying." Paul Betchley, falconer with the trust who released the bird into the wild last week, said: "It was an amazing moment. "We opened the door to the carrying-box and she hopped out, got her bearings and then took to the skies. "Let's hope she's learned her lesson and will avoid gulls in future."
A painting of Flint Castle by Joseph Mallord William Turner has sold at auction for £541,250. The painting, which had a top guide price of £500,000, was sold at Sotheby's in London. The watercolour sketch over pencil is considered one of Turner's greatest Welsh landscapes, and captures the castle on the Dee Estuary in the 1830s. It was sold by a private collector who did not want to be identified. Emmeline Hallmark, director and head of British paintings and watercolours at Sotheby's, said: "We are delighted with the price achieved for this rare and important work by Turner, and it clearly demonstrates the strength of the Turner market." Turner completed a second watercolour of the castle in 1835, which is owned by the National Museums and Galleries of Wales. It is displayed at the National Museum Wales in Cardiff for about three months every year. Flint Castle was completed in 1284 and its four towers still stand. However, it was largely destroyed some time after 1646, following its fall to parliament during the Civil War. Other Turner works featuring Welsh landscapes include Dolbadarn Castle, Ewenny Priory and Harlech Castle. According to Sotheby's, Turner drew two watercolours of the ruin following his first visit to the castle in 1792. He returned several times, and painted the auctioned landscape in the 1830s. Sotheby's pre-sale catalogue said the "rays of the sun draw the viewer's eye outwards towards the edge of the image, mirroring the effect of peripheral vision, a device repeated in many of his later watercolours". The catalogue also said the painting shows the "technical mastery" Turner had displayed by the 1830s, using a "sponge or a cloth to draw out the colour from the paper and create the sun, its rays across the sky and its reflection off the water".
They waged two wars over it and are now nuclear armed. Why do India and Pakistan dispute Kashmir? Even before India and Pakistan won their independence from Britain in August 1947, Kashmir was hotly contested. Under the partition plan provided by the Indian Independence Act, Kashmir was free to accede to India or Pakistan. The maharaja (local ruler), Hari Singh, chose India and a two-year war erupted in 1947. A new war followed in 1965, while in 1999 India fought a brief but bitter conflict with Pakistani-backed forces. By that time, India and Pakistan had both declared themselves to be nuclear powers. Many people in the territory do not want it to be governed by India, preferring instead either independence or union with Pakistan. The population of the Indian-administered state of Jammu and Kashmir is more than 60% Muslim, making it the only state within India where Muslims are in the majority. High unemployment and complaints of heavy-handed tactics by security forces battling street protesters and fighting insurgents have aggravated the problem. India and Pakistan did indeed agree a ceasefire in 2003 after years of bloodshed along the de facto border (formally known as the Line of Control). Pakistan later promised to stop funding insurgents in the territory while India offered them an amnesty if they renounced militancy. Then, in 2014, a new Indian government came to power promising a tough line on Pakistan. A bloody summer of street protests in the Indian-administered part had already raised tension this year before a militant attack on Indian soldiers left 19 dead in September. Blaming the attack on a Pakistan-based militant group, the Indian military responded with cross-border raids.
Universal Music Group (UMG) has denied any involvement in a poll that became the target of an online prank. A website that asked people where the Canadian singer Justin Bieber should tour next finally received 650,000 votes to send him to North Korea. A spokesperson for UMG told BBC News that it was a "hoax" but declined to give any further comment. The poll was promoted by members of the imageboard website 4chan, urging their users to vote for North Korea. The joke eventually turned viral, spreading onto Facebook and Twitter, with tens of thousands of people casting their vote on the site. 4chan has a long history of pulling off internet pranks and stunts. In early July, Justin Bieber videos on YouTube were the target for internet hackers, redirecting users to adult websites or triggering pop-up messages saying that the Canadian singer had died in a car crash. Google temporarily suspended commenting on videos and issued a statement saying: "We took swift action to fix a cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability." The vulnerability hole was patched a few hours later. Justin Bieber was signed to Island Records, part of the Universal Music Group, after his performances were posted on You Tube.
Thirty five people have given evidence to the Iraq Inquiry behind closed doors, it has announced. They include two former heads of the Secret Intelligence Service MI6 - Sir Richard Dearlove and Sir John Scarlett. Former UK ambassador David Manning and UK special representative to Iraq Sir Jeremy Greenstock have given evidence in both public and private. The Chilcot inquiry is examining the UK's involvement in the 2003 military action in Iraq and its aftermath. When it was first announced by then-prime minister Gordon Brown in June 2009 he initially said it would be held behind closed doors for security reasons. But later, after widespread criticism, he said some sessions should be in public and it was up to the chairman, Sir John Chilcot. Sir John said at the time he felt it was "essential to hold as much of the proceedings of the inquiry as possible in public" - and most of the hearings have been in public. But the inquiry confirmed on Thursday that it had heard from 35 witnesses in private. Among those known about are Mr Manning, Sir Jeremy and the man who ran the British operations during the conflict, General Sir John Reith. A full transcript of Gen Sir John's evidence was later published with five words blanked out, which the inquiry said was on "national security" grounds. Its chairman, Sir John Chilcott, said of the 35 witnesses: "These hearings have given the inquiry valuable evidence which could have not be heard in public session without damaging national security or international relations. "They have supplemented the inquiry's understanding as it takes forward its public work."
US hip hop star Snoop Dogg has revealed he is a fan of Coronation Street and wants a cameo part in the show. Snoop told fans during a visit to Manchester, ahead a concert at the city's Apollo, that he had asked his agent to negotiate him a role. Snoop, who has followed the soap for 11 years, believed that Granada TV producers had responded with interest. A spokeswoman for Granada said: "He's obviously a great character but hard to see how he'd fit into Weatherfield." She said they had yet to receive an approach from the performer, whose real name is Calvin Broadus. He said: "I had my agent reach out to them to see if they could try to get me on and they said they were interested so hopefully it might happen. "It would be perfect for me to be on the show. "I love the whole dynamic, the way it is put together, it is my world, it is something I could fall into." The 38-year-old recorded a video message to mark the show's 50th birthday earlier this year. While in Greater Manchester, the rapper also visited Salford's Ordsall Community Centre, where he played football with young volunteers. The teenagers had given up their time to paint the centre in exchange for tickets to his Snoop Dogg and Ice Cube concert.
The border between Northern Ireland and the Republic is an attractive gateway for child traffickers, according to an international report. The report by child protection organisation, Ecpat, said the Republic of Ireland was being used as a transit point for trafficking to the UK. The NI border and ferry crossings from the Republic to Wales are favoured. Ecpat said Ireland was among the poorest performing EU states in combating sex trafficking of children. The authors said children as young as three years old were being bought and sold. While the report commended the UK for its efforts in fighting child trafficking, it said the Republic of Ireland was among the worst performing states in the EU. Although no reliable figures exist for the numbers trafficked in Ireland, victims' groups warn it is a growing problem. They are particularly concerned about the number of children who go missing from Irish state care - 441 over the past 10 years. Jillian Van Turnhout, chief executive of the Children's Rights Alliance in Ireland said: "We are finding that some children are actually trafficked into Ireland and then moved up across the border into the north of Ireland or across by ferry links to Wales into the UK. "It concerns us that Ireland would be seen to be a weak point in a chain. We need to stand together. It is a global issue. We need, as countries, to stand together." Campaigners have called on the Irish government to put in place clear systems to help those who have been trafficked and those children at risk.
The missing former lover of a top Brazilian football star was strangled and then fed to dogs, police say. Eliza Samudio, 25, was a former girlfriend of Bruno Fernandes, goalkeeper for Flamengo, Brazil's most popular club. He handed himself into police after a warrant was issued for his arrest over her disappearance nearly a month ago. Mr Fernandes, 25, has denied any wrongdoing, and said he has a "clear conscience". But police say a teenage cousin of Mr Fernandes has given evidence that the goalkeeper was involved in her kidnap and suspected murder. Ms Samudio had said that the married footballer was the father of her baby. Police say Ms Samudio was taken by force from a hotel in Rio de Janeiro on the day of her disappearance and was strangled in the city of Belo Horizonte. They say her body was cut up and parts were fed to dogs, while the rest was buried under concrete. Police are still searching for her remains, but say her death is "materially proven". Police have also arrested Mr Fernandes's wife, Dayane Souza, and several of his friends. They say interrogation of the other suspects has backed up the account given by Mr Fernandes's teenage cousin. Flamengo have suspended Mr Fernandes's contract and say the club lawyer will no longer be acting in his defence. He had been goalkeeper of the Rio de Janeiro club since 2006, and captained them to the Brazilian championship last year. Mr Fernandes has expressed regret that the allegations could damage his chances of playing for Brazil in the 2014 FIFA World Cup finals.
An octopus credited with psychic powers has predicted that Spain will defeat the Netherlands in the World Cup final. The German zoo animal also predicted a win for Germany against Uruguay in the third place match. He has so far correctly forecast every World Cup game involving the national team. The tip for Spain was his first for a game not involving Germany. He predicts by choosing a mussel from one of two boxes bearing the flags of the competing nations. The two-year-old cephalopod has become an international celebrity. His prognosis of South Africa's World Cup final, made from his tank in the Sea Life Aquarium in the western German city of Oberhausen, has been relayed on satellite TV around the world. He correctly predicted all of Germany's World Cup games, including a shock defeat by Serbia in the group stages and the ousting by Spain on Wednesday. After that defeat, there were calls in Germany for Paul to be roasted with lemon juice and olive oil or turned into a plate of paella. But his owners said on Thursday that he is safe with them. "If Paul gets it wrong tomorrow, nothing is going to happen to him, to Paul," said Sea Life's Tanja Munzig. "Paul has proven his mettle so far and there is nothing bad waiting for him round the corner if he gets it wrong. It could happen to anyone. Even an octopus can get it wrong!" His record is not perfect, anyway, say his owners. Paul got it wrong in about 30% of Germany's games during the 2008 European Championship, including their loss to Spain in the final.
Turkmenistan's ruler has proposed allowing private media to operate in the one-party state. President Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov was also quoted in the official media as saying new parties could also be formed, but that it should not happen too soon. The ex-Soviet state has seen some liberalising reforms in recent years. But critics say the changes are only cosmetic, and that the government does not tolerate dissent. Turkmenistan is the only former Soviet republic where all media is state-controlled. The authorities monitor media outlets, operate printing presses and lay down editorial policies. "I will order proposals to be submitted for the establishment of private newspapers and magazines," Mr Berdymukhamedov said to officials, according to government paper Neutral Turkmenistan. He suggested that the Union of Private Industrialists and Entrepreneurs take a lead on the issue. It is unclear whether the move was restricted to business and trade publications. Turkmenistan is the largest gas producer in Central Asia. The country has made moves towards liberalisation since the death of its autocratic leader, Saparmurat Niyazov, in 2006. However opposition figures say it remains one of the most repressive and corrupt regimes in the world. Reporters without Borders said Turkmen authorities had refused to let a journalist travel to the Netherlands to seek medical treatment for a detached retina. "The government's refusal to permit it seems to be an act of pointless and incomprehensible cruelty," the media watchdog said in a statement. Annamamed Myatiyev and his wife, also a reporter, had worked for Neutral Turkmenistan but had been fired.
Actor Orlando Bloom said he was "chuffed" to receive an honorary degree from the University of Kent. The 33-year-old star took his place alongside graduates for the ceremony at Canterbury Cathedral in the city where he was born. He was joined by his fiancee Miranda Kerr, his parents and sister Samantha. Also honoured with a degree was fellow actor David Suchet, best known for his title role in the TV adaptation of Agatha Christie's Poirot. Bloom first caught the attention of audiences in Peter Jackson's award-winning Lord Of The Rings trilogy and went on to star in Pirates of the Caribbean. He said: "It's a really big deal. It's an exciting day for me. I'm really honoured to be back in my home town. "I have so many amazing memories of the cathedral and Canterbury. "I have lived near the university so it's like my playground. It's a huge, huge honour and I feel chuffed, as does my mother - nobody more than my mother." Bloom was also set to visit the Marlowe Theatre in Canterbury where he made his stage debut aged four. The venue is being redeveloped at a cost of £25.6m and is due to reopen in autumn 2011.
Boeing has unveiled its unmanned hydrogen-powered spy plane which can fly non-stop for up to four days. The high-altitude plane, called Phantom Eye, will remain aloft at 20,000m (65,000ft), according to the company. The demonstrator will be shipped to Nasa's Dryden Flight Research Center in California later this summer to prepare for its first flight in early 2011. Boeing says the aircraft could eventually carry out "persistent intelligence and surveillance". It is a product of the company's secretive Phantom Works research and development arm. Boeing says the aircraft is capable of long endurance flights because of its "lighter" and "more powerful" hydrogen fuel system. "We flew Condor [the company's previous reconnaissance drone] for 60 hours in 1989 on regular jet fuel,  and that was the maximum," said Chris Haddox from Boeing Phantom Works. "Now we're talking 96 hours." The company explained in a statement that Phantom Eye was "powered by two 2.3 litre, four-cylinder engines that provide 150 horsepower each". It is also very large, with a 46m (150ft) wingspan. "It isn't built for stealth - it's built for endurance," Mr Haddox told BBC News. The UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) has an ongoing interest in long-endurance high-altitude planes for surveillance and is considering a several different technologies, including solar power, to meet the requirements of what it refers to as its "Scavenger project". The aerospace and defence company Qinetiq are carrying out trials in conjunction with the MoD to develop a solar powered plane called Zephyr. A spokesperson for the MoD said: "Four days is very good but we are considering a range of options for our deep and persistent reconnaissance requirements. "Some of these options could be airborne for over a week."
US chipmaker Intel has reported bumper profits in what it describes as its "best" quarterly results. Net profit came in at $2.9bn (Â£1.9bn) for the three months to 26 June, against a loss of $398m a year ago - a higher figure than analysts expected. Revenue for the period was $10.8bn, as a result of what the company called "strong corporate demand". The firm also forecast improved revenues of $11.6bn for the three months to the end of September. Intel shares jumped 5% in after-hours trading following the announcement. Analysts were impressed by the results. "The numbers just blew me away, I cannot see any mention of any problems whatsoever," said Phani Saripella at Primary Global Research. Intel is the second major US company to report its quarterly results following aluminium giant Alcoa on Monday, which also beat analysts' expectations. Some commentators now see these results as a sign of what is to come. "In a quarter where people expected relatively strong performance, [Intel] beat that pretty handily and set a good forecast," said Edward Snyder at Charter Equity Research. "This going to be really good for a lot of other technology companies, particularly enterprise. "It might be the case that this earnings period is so strong that it allays some of the fears about the broader economy."
Mining giant Rio Tinto is investing $200m (Â£150m) in an expansion of iron ore operations in Western Australia - less than two weeks after a row over a proposed mining tax was settled. Rio said the money would be used for works at its Cape Lambert port to boost output in the Pilbara region. It had threatened to trim investment if a 40% mining tax was imposed. But after Julia Gillard replaced Kevin Rudd as Australian prime minister, a fresh deal was thrashed out. The announcement came as Rio reported a 2% fall in iron ore production between April and June, compared with a year earlier. The firm also expressed concern about the impact on its business of a possible double-dip recession in many developed nations and a slowdown in Chinese growth. The compromise tax agreement has reduced the rate to 30% for coal and iron ore miners from 40%. Several of the mining giants had threatened to halt or cancel projects because of Mr Rudd's proposal, which they said seriously risked Australia's international competitiveness. The deal was struck just a week after Ms Gillard had swept to office and the mining tax had become highly political. When Mr Rudd announced the tax plans earlier this year, he said he expected to raise 9bn Australian dollars (Â£5.2bn) a year. The revised plan would raise A$1.5bn less, the government said, but cuts to company tax rates that were to be paid for by the mining tax would still go ahead.
Rock band U2 have rescheduled tour dates in the US and Canada postponed because singer Bono needed emergency surgery on his back. The North American leg of their 360 tour had been due to start on 3 June in Salt Lake City but Bono had to undergo surgery in May. New dates begin in May 2011 in Denver and end on 23 July in Minneapolis. In a video message on U2's website, Bono apologised and said: "Thank you for standing by us." Their 2010 European tour will begin as scheduled next month in Turin. Bono said he was "feeling strong, feeling confident". 'Serious injury' He added: "I'm going to be fighting fit next summer in the US. Looking forward to this summer in Europe. I actually wanted to apologise for the trouble that this injury has put you all through. "Those of you who bought tickets, organised hotels, travel plans, it's a very big deal. People go to a lot of trouble to get U2 tickets and we don't take that for granted." He thanked fans for "standing by us in our hour of need" and said the injury "was not a lot of fun for me", "The injury was quite serious," he said. "It happened the day after my birthday and I was staring at the ceiling, which has some advantages - we got some great songs." The new dates have been published on the band's website. Manager Paul McGuinness said the band were delighted the dates had been rescheduled in the same venues as originally planned and thanked fans. "They're the best and the band wants to get back to where they belong - surrounded by their audience," he added. U2 also pulled out of Glastonbury Festival because of Bono's injury.
A husband has led funeral tributes to his wife and two children who died in a house fire on Anglesey last month. Police officer, Det Con Heather Bickley and her sons, Oscar, 10, and six-year-old Felix, died at their home at Tyn-y-Gongl near Benllech at the end of June. The fire  virtually destroyed the entire bungalow, and an investigation into its cause is continuing. More than 200 mourners attended the funeral at Bangor Crematorium on Wednesday afternoon. John Bickley, a shopfitter, gave an emotional tribute to his family during the service. Mrs Bickley's divisional commander, North Wales Police's Chief Supt Mark Jones, also addressed the congregation. "Of all the challenges police officers and others from emergency services face during our careers nothing prepares them for the loss of a colleague in circumstances such as this," he said. He called the detective a "highly respected and successful" officer. "Her love of children was enormous and this led to the final posting of her career, to the public protection unit," he added. The service ended with the Doctor Who theme tune, and family members were driven away through a police guard of honour. Fire crews were called to the family's home on 30 June after the blaze broke out at around midnight. The family had been living at the bungalow in the small hamlet of Tyn-y-Gongl for the last 18 months. The 46-year-old police officer had served with the north Wales force since 1994, and had been a member of the child protection team since 2000.
Singer Cheryl Cole is "making a good recovery" after being diagnosed with malaria, her fellow X Factor judge Simon Cowell has revealed. "I had a text from her yesterday," the pop mogul said at the launch of a charity to help burns victims. "She is on the mend and looking forward to coming back to work." Cole, 27, was diagnosed with malaria after collapsing last week, forcing her to pull out of V Festival and the boot camp stage of The X Factor. On Friday she left intensive care and was transferred to a private clinic. It is believed she contracted the disease during a six-day visit to Tanzania, on Africa's east coast, with friend Derek Hough. Cowell was joined at Tuesday's event by Katie Piper, an aspiring TV presenter scarred in 2008 when she had sulphuric acid thrown in her face. The 26-year-old underwent more than 40 operations on her face and throat that included groundbreaking surgery at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Cowell described Piper as an "inspiration" as he backed her plan to set up a specialist burns rehabilitation centre offering medical treatment and emotional support. "I was really touched by her story which is why I wanted to meet her," he told reporters.
A Gambian judge has sentenced eight men, including a former army chief, to death for their part in an alleged coup plot last year. Judge Emmanuel Amadi said they were all guilty of treason but had leave to appeal within 30 days. A correspondent in court told the BBC that relatives broke down in tears as the judgement was read out. It is not the first time army officers have been accused of plotting against President Yahya Jammeh. Mr Jammeh seized power in 1994 as a young army lieutenant and has won three widely criticised multiparty elections since then. The men were accused of procuring arms, ammunitions, equipment and mercenaries from Guinea to stage a coup. "After going through the evidence of the prosecution and the defence, I find all the persons guilty and accordingly sentence them to death on all three counts," Judge Emmanuel Amadi is quoted as saying by the AFP news agency. Fabakary Ceesay from Gambia's Foroyaa newspaper told the BBC the alleged plotters were in court for sentencing. They included former army chief Langtombong Tamba, former intelligence chief Lamin Bo Badjie and former deputy chief of police Modou Gaye. Mr Ceesay says the men tried to comfort their relatives who began wailing as the verdict was announced. According to AFP, the last time someone was executed in The Gambia was in 2007. Several people were sentenced to long prison terms over the 2006 coup attempt.
A former boxer has been jailed for four-and-a-half years for killing a West Midlands fireman. Shane Walford, 33, of St Athan Barracks, Vale of Glamorgan, pleaded not guilty to the manslaughter of Paul Gibbons but was convicted in May. Mr Gibbons, 41, from Coventry, was punched by Walford during a night out in the city in October 2009 and later died in hospital from brain injuries. Walford, a former paratrooper, was sentenced at Stafford Crown Court. He told the court he had been acting in self-defence when he punched Mr Gibbons. Afghanistan service In passing sentence Judge Simon Tonking told him: "You had recently been serving in the army, and having served in Afghanistan it should not be ignored that you were somebody who was necessarily alert to the possibility of attack. "Whilst you may have genuinely believed, albeit entirely wrongly, that you needed to defend yourself from Mr Gibbons, the amount of force which you used was out of proportion to the threat that you believed Mr Gibbons posed." Mr Gibbons had been celebrating his birthday and approached Walford on the dance floor at Millsy's bar in Earlsdon Street on 25 October when he was lifted off his feet by a punch. Walford handed himself in to police when Mr Gibbons, a father-of-two, died the next day in hospital of brain injuries. The court was told he had previous convictions for for breaking a man's jaw and assaulting a police officer.
US singer Pink was taken to hospital during a gig in Germany after an on-stage stunt went wrong. The star fell out of a harness which was supposed to carry her across the crowd, instead being dragged into a barricade. The concert in Nuremberg was halted as the 30-year-old was taken to hospital to be checked over. Later, she wrote on Twitter: "Nothing's broken, no fluid in the lungs, just seriously sore." She also apologised to fans for having to cut short her concert. "To all my nurnberg fans - I am so so so sorry to end the show that way. I am embarrassed and very sorry. I'm in ambulance now but I will b fine," she wrote. "Didn't get clipped in2 harness correctly, drug me off stage, fell in2 barricade. Getting xrays. I hope it at least looked cool!!!" Video footage, shot by a member of the crowd, shows the accident and Pink can be heard saying that it "really hurt". It also shows her getting back on stage so fans could see she was not seriously injured, but was then taken by ambulance to hospital. The Funhouse Summer Carnival Tour, which is travelling across Europe, is due to end later this month.
Sage, one of the UK's largest software businesses, has appointed Guy Berruyer to succeed long-time chief executive Paul Walker. Mr Berruyer, 59, currently in charge of Sage's operations in mainland Europe and Asia, will take over on 1 October. Sage specialises in accountancy software, and the FTSE 100 company has a reputation as one of the technology sector's best performers. Mr Walker, chief executive since 1994, is due to leave Sage on 1 December. "Guy has led the successful growth of our business in Europe and, more recently, in Asia," Sage's chairman Anthony Hobson said. "He has a strong track record of profit growth, both organically and through the successful acquisition and integration of companies." There were several other internal candidates to replace Mr Walker, and investors will be concerned that Sage could now see departures. But Panmure Gordon analyst George O'Connor said that Mr Berruyer is "steeped in Sage" and was always in "pole position". Sage reported a 4% fall in 2009 revenues and a 6% decline in operating profit, leading some analysts to feel that an outsider was needed to inject fresh life into the business dominated for years by Mr Walker. "Nice, smooth transition. But is this what Sage really needs?" wrote Anthony Miller of technology research firm TechMarketView. "Surely what Sage needs now is a highly disruptive transition!" Mr Berruyer, a French national, trained as an engineer and joined Sage in 1997. He was appointed to the board in January 2000.
The former military ruler of Suriname, Desi Bouterse, has been elected president by the South American nation's parliament. Mr Bouterse won the necessary 36 votes out of 50 after weeks of negotiations with political factions following a narrow election victory in May. Mr Bouterse, 64, first led Suriname after taking power in a coup in 1980. He has been accused of killing political opponents and convicted of drug trafficking in the Netherlands. His supporters waved flags and cheered outside parliament in the capital Paramaribo, after he secured enough votes for the presidency. But opponents voiced dismay that the former coup leader had been elected. "We have gone totally mad in this country," government employee Michael Charles told the Associated Press news agency. Mr Bouterse's Mega Combination coalition won won 23 out of 51 seats in May's parliamentary election, so he had to get the backing of other parties to secure the two-thirds majority he needed to be elected president by parliament. Desi Bouterse first seized power in a coup in 1980, five years after Suriname won independence from the Netherlands. He stepped down under international pressure in 1987, then briefly seized power again in 1991. In 1999 a Dutch court sentenced him in absentia to 11 years in prison for cocaine trafficking, but the two countries do not have an extradition treaty. He is also facing a long-delayed trial in Suriname for his alleged role in the murder of political opponents in 1982. Critics say his campaign for the presidency may have been motivated in part by a desire to secure immunity from prosecution.
A Sussex NHS mental health trust which was at the centre of a police investigation into the deaths of five patients is due to reopen next week. The Woodlands Centre for Acute Care, in St Leonards-on-Sea, closed in October after two suicides occurred within months of each other. Sussex Police investigated their deaths and those of three other patients at Sussex Partnership NHS Trust hospitals. No criminal charges were brought as a result. An independent investigation into the centre also gave it the all-clear. The unit has since undergone a Â£500,000, patient-led redesign and all 33 bedrooms and bathrooms have been refurbished. Additional training All staff have had additional training and development, with specific attention given to risk management and suicide risk reduction. The centre was shut after John Blair, 40, and Sgt Richard Bexhell, 49, were found hanged less then two months apart. Mr Blair was found hanging on 19 October 2009. He died three days later in the Conquest Hospital, in Hastings. Sgt Richard Bexhell, 49, was discovered hanged at the unit on 29 August 2009 while Susanna Anley, 35, died at the Woodlands unit in April 2008. Michael Stevens, 53, from Lancing, died at Worthing Hospital after he was found hanged in his room at the Meadowfield unit in Worthing in September the same year. A 27-year-old man was found dead in the toilets of a public area of Millview Hospital in Hove on 8 March this year.
Scottish ministers have been accused of causing unnecessary delay to a plan to upgrade the "missing link" on the M8 motorway in North Lanarkshire. Scotland's busiest motorway becomes an A-road for a six-mile stretch between Baillieston and Newhouse. Labour MSP Wendy Alexander said ministers had sat on the conclusions of two reports on upgrading the A8. The Paisley North MSP said work should have been completed by 2010 but that had now slipped to 2013/2014. The Scottish government said the work on the main Edinburgh-Glasgow road may be carried out with other schemes to offer best value to the public. Ms Alexander said a public inquiry into the proposals was held in 2008 and the reporter's conclusions were submitted to Scottish ministers in October of that year. The former Scottish Labour leader said a separate report on the M8/M73/M74 improvements was submitted to ministers on 24 July 2009. "The SNP government needs to explain why it is taking so long to make a decision on the upgrade of the A8," she said. "Ministers have been sitting on more than one inquiry report for the past year and this project is in danger of slipping further and further behind the original timetable. "Completing the M8 is vital for motorists who commute in and around Glasgow and Lanarkshire and to Edinburgh. Why have SNP ministers sat on their hands for 20 months and 12 months following receipt of Inquiry reports?" A spokeswoman for the Scottish government said: "We expect to announce a decision shortly. "Subject to approval of the M8 Baillieston to Newhouse scheme, Transport Scotland is considering packaging the M8/M73/M74 improvements and the proposed M74 Junction 5 Raith works to provide best value for the public."
A bear climbed into an empty car in the US state of Colorado, sounded the horn and sent the vehicle rolling down hill with the terrified animal still inside. The car's owner, 17-year-old Ben Story, took a snap of the panic-stricken bear as it demolished the inside of his vehicle in its bid to escape. Police in Larkspur, near Denver, eventually freed the animal by opening the door from a distance using a rope. It is believed the bear was attracted by a sandwich left on the back seat. Mr Story and his family were asleep when the bear opened the unlocked door of his 2008 Toyota Corolla in the early hours of the morning and climbed inside. Mr Story's father, Ralph, said the bear must have hit the car's automatic transmission into neutral sending it rolling backwards 125ft (38m), off the driveway, down an embankment and into a thicket of trees. "The four-way flashers were on. It's like he knew what was going on, and kept hitting the horn," he told Denver's 7News. Once the car door closed behind the bear, it was trapped inside. Ben Story said his car was wrecked. "It [the bear] was a pretty good size, actually it was pretty big. If you look at the inside of the car, there's nothing left at all. You could see it moving around, it like took up the entire inside of the car." The bear was last seen running into the woods. Colorado wildlife expert Tyler Baskfield said bears often entered cars and houses in search of food. "It happens all the time," he said. "They're very smart."
A teenager who kicked to death a father-of-three outside his Warrington home has lost a bid to challenge his conviction. Jordan Cunliffe's application for permission to appeal was thrown out at the Court of Appeal. The 18-year-old, who attended the proceedings, was one of three teenagers jailed for the murder of Garry Newlove. He was told that no arguable grounds had been raised which could affect the safety of the verdict. Mr Newlove, a 47-year-old salesman who had overcome stomach cancer, was beaten to death after confronting vandals outside his home in 2007. He suffered massive head injuries in the attack, which was witnessed by his daughters, and died two days later in hospital. Cunliffe, formerly of Warrington, was found guilty of murder by a jury at Chester Crown Court in January 2008. He was 16 at the time of conviction and is serving a minimum term of 12 years. Mr Newlove had left his home to remonstrate with the teenagers about vandalism to vehicles where he lived when he was set upon. Ringleader Adam Swellings, of Crewe, Cheshire, lost an appeal in November 2008 against his conviction and his 17-year sentence. Co-accused Stephen Sorton, of Warrington, appealed at the same time against his 15-year minimum term, which was reduced to 13 years. Mr Newlove's murder sparked outrage and a national debate about Britain's yob culture. His wife, Helen Newlove, has just recently been made a Conservative peer in the House of Lords for her campaigning to stop alcohol-fuelled violence.
A Spanish man who underwent the world's first full face transplant has revealed his new look before TV cameras. The 31-year-old thanked his donor's family and the medics that gave him a new face in March at Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Barcelona. A shooting accident meant his entire facial skin and muscles - including nose and lips - needed replacing. Doctors say he can expect to regain up to 90% of his facial functions. He had been left unable to breathe, swallow, or talk properly after an accident five years ago. Now the man, identified only as Oscar, still struggles to speak with clarity and will need months of physical therapy. He told the news conference: "Friends, I want to thank the hospital coordinators, the entire  medical team, the family of the donor and most of all my family who are supporting me these days." Fergus's Medical Files Oscar was considered for a full face transplant after nine previous operations failed. A team of 30 experts carried out the 24-hour long operation on 20 March at the hospital in Barcelona. Led by Dr JP Barret, the team transplanted muscles, nose, lips, maxilla, palate, all teeth, cheekbones, and the mandible by means of plastic surgery and micro-neurovascular reconstructive surgery techniques. It was the first full face transplant performed worldwide, as the 10 operations performed previously had been only partial. The first successful face transplant was performed in France in  2005 on Isabelle Dinoire, a 38-year-old woman who had been mauled by her dog.
More than a third of dogs in the UK are overweight, veterinary charity PDSA has warned. The charity conducted an assessment of almost 30,000 dogs across the UK over the past four years and found 35% of pets were carrying too many pounds. Four years ago the figure was 21%, and PDSA warns that if the trend continues, almost half of all dogs could be overweight by 2013. The charity said obesity posed a threat to the animals' health and lifespan. Senior veterinary surgeon Sean Wensley said: "Overweight pets are less mobile, less willing to play and more likely to develop a number of serious health conditions. "Ultimately, owners control their pet's diet and exercise. The good news is it's never too late to achieve positive change with their veterinary practice." As part of efforts to highlight the problem PDSA is relaunching its annual pet slimming competition, Pet Fit Club, which aims to encourage owners to get their pets to lose weight. In 2009, it was won by Labrador Keano, from Plymouth, who after shed 1st 6lbs (10kg). He was so overweight at 7st 2lbs (46kg), he could not roll over on his back before joining the PDSA scheme, but regular walks and proper dog food helped him find a new lease of life.
A road named after the heroine of the Tomb Raider video games has opened in Derby. In Pictures: Lara's Way Lara Croft Way is part of the city's new Â£36.2m inner ring road system designed to improve traffic flow. The name was chosen from a shortlist by public vote, with 89% of those polled opting for the character devised by Derby-based game studio Core Design. Another stretch of the network will be named Mercian Way after the local army regiment. The ring road is part of the Connecting Derby scheme, a long-term project to improve transport links in the area. Councillor Matthew Holmes, cabinet member for planning and environment, said: "The opening of Lara Croft Way signifies another major milestone of the Connecting Derby scheme which is fast approaching completion after many years of hard work by a great number of terrific individuals. "Derby is proud of its place in a vibrant creative industry and Lara Croft Way is fantastic way to celebrate that." The completion of Lara Croft Way will allow drivers to access Burton Road, Babington Lane and Normanton Road via the new roundabout at the junction of Burton Road and Normanton Road. The Inner Ring Road project is due to be fully completed at the start of 2011.
A suspected former Nazi death camp guard has been charged with taking part in the killing of 430,000 Jews, German prosecutors have said. Samuel Kunz, 88, who has been living near Bonn in western Germany, is also charged with murder over the deaths of another 10 Jews in separate incidents. He is alleged to have been a guard at the Belzec camp in Poland in 1942-43. The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a Nazi-hunting organisation, puts Mr Kunz as its third-most-wanted Nazi suspect. The retired civil servant's flat was raided by police in January. At the time, prosecutors said Mr Kunz denied being personally involved in any killings. Prosecutors say he was informed of his indictment last week. The BBC's Tristana Moore in Berlin says Mr Kunz has been questioned several times by German investigators but it was only recently that prosecutors stumbled across his name during the trial of another Nazi war crimes suspect, John Demjanjuk. It is alleged that the two men trained at the same SS camp, at Trawniki in Poland. Mr Kunz has already been called as a witness in the trial of 90-year-old Mr Demjanjuk, who was deported to Munich from the US last May. Mr Demjanjuk is charged with participating in the murder of 27,900 people at the Sobibor death camp. He denies the charges. Klaus Hillenbrand, an expert on the Nazi period, said that in the 1960s Mr Kunz gave evidence about the Trawniki camp during a trial, but was never indicted himself. "During the 1960s, prosecutors were not interested in charging low-ranking guards," he said. "That changed in the past 10 years when a new generation of prosecutors took over and there is a new way of thinking among them. The law itself was not changed, just the interpretation of the law."
Up to 140 people are feared dead after a boat carrying passengers and goods capsized on a river in the Democratic Republic of Congo, officials say. The accident happened on the Kasai river - a tributary of the Congo River - in the western province of Bandundu. Information Minister Lambert Mende told the BBC the vessel had been overloaded and 80 people had been confirmed dead. After decades of conflict, DR Congo has few roads or rail links and many people travel on often overloaded boats. The latest accident occurred on Wednesday. Mr Mende told the BBC the river level had been low and the accident occurred when the overcrowded boat hit a mud bank. He told the AFP news agency that 76 survivors had been found and that the ferry had officially been carrying 180 passengers. But he said many more people are likely to have boarded the boat illegally. Several local officials have said about 140 people are believed to have died. The ferry was travelling to the capital Kinshasa from Mushie, about 30km (20 miles) from the town of Bandundu, AFP reports. Last November at least 73 people died when a boat sank on Lake Mai-Ndombe, also in Bandundu province. DR Congo - a country the size of western Europe - has only a few hundred kilometres of paved roads outside the cities, so the rivers are the main long-distance transport link for the majority of people who cannot afford to travel by air.
Entertainment giant Walt Disney has announced the sale of its Miramax film division for about $660m to a group of private equity investors. The investors, Filmyard, includes construction magnate Ron Tutor and investment firm Colony Capital. Disney has been negotiating with potential buyers for months to sell the division, which has made films such as Pulp Fiction and Shakespeare in Love. Earlier this week, Disney bought the social gaming developer Playdom. "Although we are very proud of Miramax's many accomplishments, our current strategy for Walt Disney Studios is to focus on the development of great motion pictures under the Disney, Pixar and Marvel brands," Disney's chief executive Robert Iger said. Disney wants to concentrate on these family-orientated divisions, which produce popular films such as Toy Story, that also come with highly profitable merchandising opportunities. "Disney has been very smart with its film strategy," media analyst Theresa Wise told BBC World Business Report. "One of the big issues with movies is very few films break even... so they need other revenues. Disney has the fantastic ability to sell family films and all the merchandise that goes with it. Disney has owned Miramax since 1993 when it bought the firm from Hollywood heavyweights Harvey and Bob Weinstein. The Weinstein brothers, who recently attempted to buy it back from Disney, named the film company after their parents Miriam and Max.
An exhibition of late works by artist Salvador Dali opens this weekend in Atlanta, including several pieces not seen in the US for half a century. The collection of 40 paintings - plus films, sculptures and photographs - focuses on the period from 1940 to 1983. Works have been brought in from countries around the world - including Canada, Scotland and Japan. The exhibition runs at Atlanta's High Museum of Art until 9 January. "It's become a really interesting area for investigation because you have Dali's career which spans almost all of the 20th century, but historically people have really only looked at the 1930s," exhibition curator Elliott King told the Associated Press. "It was almost like he died in 1940." The exhibition includes photos by American photographer Philippe Halsman showing the artist displaying what King describes as Dali's "wacky showman" side. Atomic explosion The exhibition also reflects two recurring influences on Dali's later work - his return to the Catholic Church and nuclear physics. One work that illustrates this theme is Santiago El Grande - which shows a crucifixion scene and a horse rearing up above an atomic explosion. Another is The Madonna of Port-Lligat - showing the Madonna and Child breaking into particles. The painting is on loan from a museum in Japan and has not been seen in the US since 1951. The work Assumpta Corpuscularia Lapilazulina - which features Dali's wife as the Virgin Mary - has been in private collections and has not been exhibited since 1959. The exhibition also includes the 1960 documentary film Chaos and Creation - an early example of video art which includes pigs, popcorn and a motorbike.
The entrance to Sunderland's Roker Pier is to benefit from a £75,000 make over. New gates, made from a series of polished stainless steel posts and toughened glass panels are to be installed next year. The design was described as "classy and contemporary" by residents in the city who took part in a public consultation on the project. The pier and lighthouse are a Grade II listed structure. The pier took 18 years to build and opened in 1903. Sunderland City Council's culture spokesman Denny Wilson, said the new gates - dubbed Lightwave - would create "an impressive new entrance to one of the seafront's best-loved landmarks." He added: "The seafront is one of our greatest assets. "This is just the first of a number of improvements people can expect to see to the seafront over the next 18 months following the consultation we carried out last year." Sunderland was awarded £1m from the Commission for the Built Environment (CABE) to revamp the area and was boosted by £500,000 of extra funding from the city council. Fiona Heron, who designed the gates, said: "Lightwave aims to capture the spirit of the place using ideas of reflection and movement linked with the sea and the effect of light on glass prisms. "I hope to help re-invigorate the scene with an exciting high quality artwork which brings out the best in art and design."
A US appeals court has ruled a couple who gave their children Nazi-inspired names should not regain custody, citing the risk of serious injury to them. Adolf Hitler Campbell, 4, and his sisters, JoyceLynn Aryan Nation, 3, and Honszlynn Hinler Jeannie, 2, were taken from their New Jersey home in 2009. The case first came to public attention in December 2008 after a shop refused to decorate a birthday cake for Adolf. A family court had earlier found there was insufficient evidence of abuse. But on Thursday, the appeals panel determined that social workers had proved the need for protective services for the three children. The panel found that the parents, who both suffer from unspecified physical and psychological disabilities, had "recklessly created a risk of serious injury to their children by failing to protect the children from harm and failing to acknowledge and treat their disabilities". The judges also noted that Deborah Campbell had recently passed a letter to a neighbour saying her husband had threatened "to have me killed or kill me himself". The children's father, Heath Campbell, told the Associated Press last year that he believed they were taken into foster care because of their names. He also alleged that the authorities had relied on unproven accusations made by a neighbour and his ex-wife.
More than 400 wildfires are burning in British Columbia, Canada, as additional emergency teams pour in from across the country and the US. About 250 firefighters from Ontario, Alberta, and the US state of Washington have been sent to the province to help battle the disaster. Local government officials have confirmed they have surpassed their annual forest firefighting budget. Most of the fires started at the end of July. Finance Minister Colin Hansen said the BC Liberal government had already spent 56.5m Canadian dollars ($55.1m; Â£34.6m) and counting - passing its allotted budget of $51.7m for the year, according to the Vancouver Sun newspaper. This year's fire budget represents the lowest in more than a decade, the paper says. In 2001, for example, the local government allocated 85.7m Canadian dollars for forest fires in BC. Mr Hansen cited the unpredictability of forest fire seasons for the drop and said the budgets were only projected to cover the minimum cost of getting firefighting resources in place. Meanwhile, heavy smoke has enveloped communities around BC. Residents in Alexis Creek, in central BC, began evacuating their homes as winds carried smoke into their community on Friday. But some are refusing to leave. "They are afraid for their homes, and even though the heavy smoke is a serious health issue, they are refusing to leave," said counsellor Sherry Stump. More than 70 of the fires have started within the past three days, according to the Wildfire Management Branch. A water-bomber plane fighting forest fires in British Columbia crashed last week, killing the two pilots and igniting another fire. Emergency teams have responded to 1,272 wildfires in BC since 1 April, which have burned a total of 933 sq km, according to the fire service.
Scientists at Edinburgh University have been awarded £2.5m to tackle the growing health risk posed by ticks. Campers and hikers have long known the misery ticks can cause. Now scientists at the Roslin Institute aim to find new ways to prevent diseases transmitted by the tiny insect-like creatures. The university will establish the Roslin Wellcome Trust Tick Cell Biobank with the funding from the Wellcome Trust. It says the biobank will house the world's largest collection of tick cell lines, enabling scientists to carry out advanced research. The scientists hope to understand how viruses and bacteria, which are transmitted by ticks and which cause a range of human diseases, can survive for long periods of time within ticks without damaging them. In parts of the world, ticks can transmit a number of severe and potentially deadly diseases to humans and animals, including Lyme disease, tick-borne encephalitis and Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever. In Britain, cases of Lyme disease are dramatically increasing each year. In the rest of Europe, tick-borne encephalitis is now endemic in 27 countries, including Germany and Croatia. Tick numbers are surging in Europe and scientists warn that changing climate patterns and increasing globalisation could enable them to spread into new areas. The Tick Cell Biobank team and collaborators from seven other European countries have received further funding from the European Union to train a new generation of scientists specialising in ticks and their related diseases. Project leader Professor John Fazakerley said: "Tick-transmitted infections are likely to be increasingly important in the future. Understanding these diseases and training scientists to undertake research on them is important for both human and animal heath".
The Bangladeshi government has banned corporal punishment in all educational institutions across the country. The directive came weeks after the High Court had ordered the government to take steps to stop corporal punishment in primary and secondary schools. The government's order covers all schools, including madrassas. Beatings are widespread in Bangladeshi schools, even though human rights groups have been campaigning against them for years. In its latest directive, the education ministry banned what it described as inhuman and merciless punishment given to students in schools. Corporal punishment damaged the development of students, it said. Those teachers found guilty of beating children will now face disciplinary action by district education officers. Some school staff argue that a form of corporal punishment is needed to keep order in their classrooms. But others disagree. "We used to give physical punishment at our school in limited scale. But we found that it did not bring any positive result," said one teacher, Rafiqul Islam. "Students who face corporal punishment do not attend classes regularly." In July, the high court ordered the government to take steps to stop corporal punishment following allegations that a 10-year-old boy had committed suicide after he had been beaten by his school teacher. At another school in the south of the country, eight students were allegedly treated in hospital after being caned for not bringing coloured pencils to the school.
A jury in Hawaii has convicted a former US engineer of selling military secrets to China. Noshir Gowadia, who helped design the propulsion system for the B-2 bomber, was found guilty on multiple counts - including conspiracy and money laundering. Indian-born Gowadia, 67, could be sentenced to life in prison. The case is one of a series of major prosecutions targeting alleged Chinese spying in the US. According to prosecutors, Gowadia helped China to design a stealth cruise missile. It involved an exhaust nozzle that would evade infrared radar detection and US heat-seeking missiles. Gowadia was accused of travelling to China between 2003 and 2005 while designing the missile. He was said to have been paid $110,000 (Â£69,000) - money that was used to pay off a mortgage on a luxury home on the island of Maui. In his defence, lawyers said it was true that Mr Gowadia had designed an exhaust nozzle for China - but that it was "basic stuff" based on unclassified information that was publicly available. Gowadia, who was born in India, moved to the US in the 1960s and became a citizen about a decade later. He has been in custody for nearly four years and faces life in prison when he is sentenced in November. He was found not guilty on three counts of communicating national defence information to help a foreign nation.
Saudi Arabia's telecommunications regulator has said it will allow BlackBerry services to continue in the kingdom for now. The country was due to enforce a ban on the devices on 6 August, but this did not come into effect. The Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC) said there had been "positive developments" in its talks with the device's manufacturer, Research in Motion (RIM). RIM has yet to comment on the matter. "In light of the positive developments toward addressing some of the organisational requirements by the providers, the commission [has] decided to allow the BlackBerry Messenger service to continue," the CITC said. Saudi Arabia - and an increasing number of other nations - are unhappy that BlackBerry handsets automatically scramble messages and send them to servers in Canada. Authorities have said they want access to these messages - and the keys to decrypt them - to counter terrorism and criminal activity. So far, Research In Motion has resisted any attempts to force it to open up its data. However, the plan being discussed with Saudi Arabia reportedly involves placing a BlackBerry server in the country. On Saturday, a Saudi official told the Associated Press news agency that tests were under way to see how such a server would work. An agreement could help overcome similar concerns in other countries, such as India and the United Arab Emirates. The UAE has said it will ban Blackberry e-mail, messaging and web browsing in October.
Actress Zsa Zsa Gabor has returned home after being discharged from hospital, four weeks after breaking her hip in a fall at her Los Angeles mansion. Her departure follows earlier reports she would remain at the UCLA Ronald Reagan Medical Center in Los Angeles after contracting an infection. Gabor's husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, told reporters she was "happy" to be home. "She can go on for many more years," he said of his 93-year-old partner. Gabor had been expected to spend a week in hospital after undergoing hip replacement surgery on 19 July. But her condition began to deteriorate after the operation, forcing her to remain longer than originally anticipated. Her husband said Gabor was "not a young chick" and had been "scared" during her extended stay in hospital. He knew his wife was "in good shape", however, when she "started flirting with the guys who took her home". Gabor - who appeared in such films as Moulin Rouge and Touch of Evil - is partially paralysed and uses a wheelchair following a car accident in 2002 and a 2005 stroke. The Hungarian-born actress was taken back to her Bel-Air mansion on Wednesday in an ambulance that formed part of a four-car convoy.
A statue by a renowned Victorian sculptor has been stolen from a park in his home city. 'Joyance', an 1899 statue of a boy by Sir William Goscombe John, was cut from the water fountain in Thompson's Park, Canton, Cardiff. Sir William was one of the most prominent 19th Century sculptors and the theft comes in the 150th anniversary year of his birth. Cardiff Council called it a "mindless crime". Police are investigating. Executive member for sport, culture and leisure Councillor Nigel Howells said: "This is a mindless crime that has deprived visitors to Thompson's Park of a much loved feature. "Security measures are in place at the park, with the gates locked every evening. "This is an isolated incident and the matter has now been referred to South Wales Police". 2010 marks the 150th anniversary of Sir William Goscombe John's birth in Canton and a local pub is named in his honour, near where his street used to stand. His statues and monuments can be seen in many places in the UK and abroad, including Westminster Abbey, St Paul's and Llandaff cathedrals. Many remain in Cardiff, including the statues of Lord Ninian in the civic centre and 'The Elf' in St Fagans. His father, John, was a woodcarver to the third Marquis of Bute and William assisted him with carvings at Cardiff Castle. Sir William, knighted in 1911, died in 1952, aged 92. The statue, which is 4-5ft, was stolen in the early hours of Saturday, July 31. A South Wales Police spokeswoman confirmed that officers were investigating. Anyone with information is asked to call Canton Police Station on 029 2022 2111 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
It could be time to revisit the way champagne is served, according to scientists. Researchers, based (appropriately) in France's Champagne region, say the effervescent drink should be poured "like beer" in an angled way, down the side of the glass. This method of serving, they found, was best to preserve its taste and fizz. Previous research has shown that keeping these CO2 bubbles in drink enhances its flavour. The findings are reported in the Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry. The study also showed how chilling champagne affected its flavour. Gerard Liger-Belair from the University of Reims and his colleagues measured the loss of CO2 gas from champagne as it was poured. They compared three champagne temperatures - at 4C, 12C and 18C - and two different ways of serving. Infrared imaging showed the clouds of CO2 escaping from the drink as it was poured. The beer-like pouring method, where the champagne flowed along the inclined flute wall, was much less turbulent and released less gas than the more traditional pouring method. Colder temperatures were also better for preserving the precious bubbles. What the researchers described as a "champagne-like" way of serving - pouring the drink vertically so it hit the bottom of the flute - generated a thick head of foam. "This quickly vertically extends and then progressively collapses during serving," they reported. "This way is the traditional way of serving champagne and sparkling wines in bars, clubs, and restaurants". The scientists concluded: "Since dissolved CO2 is known to be of great importance in champagne and sparkling wine tasting, would not it be pertinent to revisit the way champagne should be served?" Dr Liger-Belair and his colleagues are now constructing a mathematical model to describe "CO2 discharge during the champagne pouring process".
Plans to bring back racing to Lincoln's West Common have been put on hold. The Lincoln Racecourse Regeneration Company has withdrawn its application, three days before the proposals were to be considered by the city council. The firm said it did not feel the application was going to be properly presented at the meeting and more work was needed. Opponents of the scheme said they were delighted, adding that they intend to develop their own plans for the area. The project had faced vocal criticism from some nearby residents who feared it would cause traffic congestion. Last month the Commons Advisory Committee, a panel of local interest groups, criticised the proposals as being too vague. Karen Rastall, one of the directors of the Lincoln Racecourse Regeneration Company (LRRC), insisted the scheme was only being deferred. "We feel the report that was tabled for Monday evening and the options that were actually outlined for the council to consider were not in keeping with the discussions we had been holding with Lincoln City Council for a considerable period of time. "They did not reflect the behind-the-scenes discussions that had been on the go and the information the council had been asking for." Chris Dunbar, communications manager at City of Lincoln Council, said: "The meeting is still scheduled to take place as planned. "The report to be presented to the executive is a fair appraisal of the proposal, taking into account both the information presented by LRRC and the comments of the Commons Advisory Panel."
Actor, writer and television presenter Stephen Fry has joined the board of Norwich City Football Club. The announcement was made at a press conference at Carrow Road. Fry, who will act as an ambassador for the club, said: "Truly this is one of the most exciting days of my life and I am as proud and pleased as I could be." Fry, who has a home in Norfolk, is a lifelong fan of the Championship club and has often been seen with majority shareholder Delia Smith at Carrow Road. He said: "Having been shockingly overlooked by successive Norwich City managers all these years as a player, I have come to the sad conclusion that it is probably unlikely now that I will ever be picked to play for the first team. "But I am happy instead to play my part in another capacity, as that of a proud and passionate ambassador for the great game of football. "The day may still come when I am needed out on the pitch, I haven't entirely ruled that out, but until then I shall endeavour to serve with enthusiasm and energy, spreading the word far and wide of Norwich City Football Club and the pleasures and rewards to be had as a supporter." Ms Smith said: "Having one of the club's most passionate supporters who just happens to also be one of the country's best-loved performers join us to act as an ambassador for the football club will be just fantastic." The television chef, who has been majority shareholder at Norwich since 1996, was made a CBE for services to the food industry in 2009. Norwich, who were League One winners last season, play at Scunthorpe on Saturday where they hope to secure their first points of the new Championship campaign.
A sports car once owned by the late British actress Diana Dors has sold for $3 million (Â£1.9m) at a California auction. The 1949 Delahaye Roadster, which some have dubbed the most beautiful car in the world, was given to Dors when she was 17. The sky blue car has been described by auctioneers as "extravagant and outrageous - a rolling sculpture". Dors, who was seen as the British Marilyn Monroe, died in 1984 aged 52. Born Diana Mary Fluck, Dors became known as a 1950s blonde sex symbol, but was also well-respected for her acting skills. RM auctioneers said the car was curvaceous, sexy and flamboyant, just like its former owner. It was expected to sell for up to $6m but went for $3m plus a buyer's premium of 10%. The car is one of only 150 Roadsters made, and only one of 51 of its specific model - the 175S. The company stopped production in 1951 as it found there was little demand for such extravagance during that post-war period. When Dors first received the car, she did not even have a driving licence. At 20, she became the youngest owner of a Rolls-Royce in the UK - a reflection of her success at an early age. After she died, the car changed ownership several times and has in recent years been restored to its former condition. In its catalogue listing, RM Auctions says the Roadster - which has a top speed of 70mph - can "easily claim to being the most extravagant and beautiful coachbulit car in existence".
Gabon has signed deals to diversify its economy in an attempt to be less reliant on its dwindling oil reserves. The government has announced contracts with Asian companies worth $4.5bn billion dollars. President Ali Bongo signed the agreements on the eve of the country's 50th anniversary of its independence from France. The projects will revamp infrastructure and create about 50,000 jobs. Gabon's oil output has been declining for years and the new deals are presented as the first steps towards diversification. The largest deal is the with OLAM, a Singapore-based company which plans to develop a huge palm oil plantation in the south east. The government wants to become the leading palm oil producer in Africa. In terms of infrastructure, the OLAM deal involves the construction of a refinery, and there are plans for a possible port. Another agreement was signed with the Indian company M3M,  to build 5,000 low-cost housing units over the next two years. Ramky Infrastructure, another Indian construction company, will build 1,000 kilometres of tarred road over the next three years in a $1.5bn project that will be jointly financed by the Gabonese government. Gabon has already attracted a number of Asian investors, notably Malaysian and Chinese companies, but most of them were interested in the mining and timber sectors.
Drivers of foreign-owned supercars are being blamed for helping rack up almost £4m in unpaid parking fines in London. Westminster council said in central London supercars were often illegally parked in bus lanes, on double yellow lines and in residents' parking bays. But the authority is unable to recoup the money as it does not have the power to trace overseas vehicles. The council wants the law changed to give it access to overseas driver and vehicle registration information. According to the authority, foreign-owned cars and motorbikes owe almost £4m in unpaid fines handed out over the past three years, with more than 80% of overseas drivers given tickets refusing to pay for them. Revealing several "high-profile" offenders, the council said the owner of a £300,000 Rolls Royce Phantom, with the number plate 3HVB, had accumulated 18 tickets and more than £2,000 in fines. And it said the owner of a £1.2m Bugatti Veyron L'Edition Centenaire, with the number plate 444, had an outstanding ticket for parking outside a main entrance to Selfridges department store in Oxford Street in March. Kieran Fitsall, of Westminster City Council, said: "The best thing that we can ask for is for the government to do something about this. "It's not just Westminster that has a problem, it's right the way across the UK. We can't trace these vehicles and they are causing a problem."
Judge John Deed star Martin Shaw had to pull out of a stage performance on Wednesday after he was taken ill during the first act. The curtain came down during the matinee showing of A Country Girl at Shrewsbury's Theatre Severn after the 65-year-old began to feel unwell. Shaw's agent told the BBC the actor had been suffering from cracked ribs and was taking antibiotics for a severe chest infection. An understudy went on in Shaw's place. Shaw only took to the stage out of "dogged determination," agent Roger Charteris said. "He didn't want to let his fans down." Jackson Cummings, marketing manager for the Theatre Severn, said: "As a precautionary measure paramedics were called. Martin walked out to them and was taken to hospital." The play, which is based on the 1954 Oscar-winning film starring Bing Crosby and Grace Kelly, is currently touring the UK before transferring to the West End in October. It is due to end its run at the Theatre Severn on 21 August and move on to the Milton Keynes Theatre on 26 August, but it is unclear when Shaw will return to the stage. "Martin will want to be on stage tonight, but whether that's possible is up for the doctor's decision," Mr Charteris said. Shaw, who rose to fame in TV series The Professionals currently plays the title role in crime drama Inspector George Gently. His stage roles include A Streetcar Named Desire, Look Back In Anger and An Ideal Husband, for which he received a Tony Award nomination in 1996.
Criminals could be tracked down by the way they walk, a study has claimed. Tests by Southampton University found people's walking patterns - their gait - are so different they could be used to identify individuals. Researchers used a multi-biometric tunnel with 12 synchronised cameras to capture and translate 25 subjects' gaits to build unique 3D images. It is hoped the technique could be used for a variety of purposes, including security monitoring at airports. 'Extreme clothing changes' Darko Matovski, who led the investigation, said: "We have shown for the first time that gait can be used as a reliable biometric trait over time." The team believes the technique could be used in airport immigration halls where "a simple corridor with cameras" would be enough to identify large flows of people. Mr Matovski, from the university's school of electronics and computer science, added: "A bank robber may wear a mask so you can't see his face, wear gloves so you can't get fingerprints, wear a hat so you can't get DNA evidence - but he still has to walk into the bank and you can identify him from the walk." With almost 2,000 walking sequences recorded in a database, Mr Matovski claims a 95% success rate. Gait can also be measured at a distance - an advantage over other forms of biometric identification. However researchers found that "extreme changes" in clothing can affect recognition levels.
Swedish authorities say they have issued an arrest warrant for Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, on accusations of rape and molestation. The warrant was issued late on Friday, said Karin Rosander, communications head at Sweden's prosecutors' office. Swedish police have been trying to contact Mr Assange, but have not yet been able to, she told the BBC. Wikileaks, criticised for leaking Afghan war documents, quoted him saying the allegations were "without basis". The message, which appeared on Twitter and was attributed directly to Mr Assange, said the appearance of the allegations "at this moment is deeply disturbing". In a series of other messages posted on the Wikileaks Twitter feed, the whistle-blowing website said: "No-one here has been contacted by Swedish police", and that it had been warned to expect "dirty tricks". Last month, Wikileaks published more than 75,000 secret US military documents on the war in Afghanistan. US authorities criticised the leak, saying it could put the lives of coalition soldiers and Afghans, especially informers, at risk. Mr Assange has said that Wikileaks is intending to release a further 15,000 documents in the coming weeks. Ms Rosander said there were two separate allegations against Mr Assange, one of rape and the other of molestation. She gave no details of the accusations. She said that as far as she knew they related to alleged incidents that took place in Sweden. Media reports say Mr Assange was in Sweden last week to talk about his work and defend the decision by Wikileaks to publish the Afghan war logs. The allegations were first reported in the Swedish newspaper Expressen.
A pair of 20,000-year-old woolly mammoth tusks trawled up from the bottom of the North Sea are going on display at a Dorset museum. They form the centrepiece of a display on mammoths at the Dinosaur Museum in Dorchester. Their tusks could grow to 5m (16ft) but only 1.5m (5ft) sections are on show. At the time the animal died the North Sea did not exist and the area was low-lying grassland connecting the British Isles to the continent. When the North Sea formed at the end of the last ice age, the tusks became buried in the thin layers of sand at the bottom of the shallow southern part of it. They remained there for thousands of years and eventually tidal currents and dredging released the fossilised remains, which were caught in the fishing nets of a trawler earlier this year. Tim Batty, curator of the Dinosaur Museum, said the tusks were unusually coloured because they had been in water for so long. He said: "The new display comes at a time when new research has revealed that humans were not responsible for the extinction of the mammoths. "It had traditionally been thought that mammoths had been hunted to extinction. "However it now appears that it was climate change that caused their extinction. "Mammoths were well adapted to the low temperatures of the ice age. "The climatic conditions during the ice age did not favour the growth of trees and consequently there were extensive grasslands for the mammoths to graze on. "However with the end of the ice age and the warming of temperatures, tree growth accelerated causing a spread of forests and dramatically reducing the available food supply for mammoths."
A US district court has issued a temporary injunction blocking plans by the Obama administration to increase funding for stem cell research. The court ruled in favour of researchers who say human embryonic stem cell research involved the destruction of human embryos. Judge Royce Lamberth said lawsuits brought against the new guidelines could now go ahead. President Obama lifted a ban on funding for stem cell research in March. Critics say the ban, which was kept in place by Mr Obama's predecessor, George W Bush, impeded the fight to find treatments for diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes. The suit, which was also backed by some Christian groups, is against the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Those against the new plan to increase funding argued the NIH policy violated US law and also took funds from researchers seeking to work with adult stem cells. "ESC (embryonic stem cell) research is clearly research in which an embryo is destroyed," Judge Lamberth said. He added: "To conduct ESC research, ESCs must be derived from an embryo. The process of deriving ESCs from an embryo results in the destruction of the embryo. Thus ESC research necessarily depends upon the destruction of a human embryo." But Judge Lamberth said an injunction would not "seriously harm" the embryonic studies because it did "not interfere with their [researchers'] ability to obtain private funding for their research". The Dickey-Wicker Amendment, which Congress adds to budget legislation each year, played an important role in the case. The amendment bans the use of federal funds to destroy human embryos. With the injunction in place, Judge Royce Lamberth is now likely to hear groups on both sides of the case argue whether the new guidelines should be permanently blocked or allowed to continue.
Australian television has begun a week of celebrations to mark the 6,000th episode of Neighbours The popular soap opera is watched in more than 60 countries, and has been running for 25 years. The show's producers are planning a series of blockbuster storylines, including a fairytale wedding and the plotting of an attempted murder. Neighbours tells the story of ordinary suburban folk in a fictional Australian city. While it might not sound like gripping television, the show's simple formula of mixing family disputes with troublesome teenagers and romance has intrigued many millions of viewers around the world. The producers have launched a series of festivities to mark the programme's extraordinary longevity with storylines that include the return of an old favourite and the appearance of the first openly gay male character. The success of Neighbours owes a great deal to its international appeal. Viewing figures in Australia have declined steadily in recent years but the daily dramas on Ramsay Street continue to thrill audiences overseas. The soap opera is shown in Ireland, Norway and Belgium as well as Barbados and New Zealand. Britain has been fixated with this legendary show for decades. The marriage of characters Scott and Charlene, played by the actor Jason Donovan and the singer Kylie Minogue, was watched by more than 20m people in the United Kingdom. Despite its fluffy reputation, Neighbours has occasionally tackled far more weighty issues, including drug trafficking, kidnapping and murder.
At least 42 people have been killed after a passenger plane crash-landed in the north-eastern Chinese province of Heilongjiang, state media report. The Henan Airlines aircraft, with 91 people on board, burst into flames after overshooting the runway at Yichun City's airport at 2136 (1336 GMT). Police in Heilongjiang told Chinese state TV that three of the 49 survivors were in a critical condition. The Embraer ERJ-190 had taken off from the provincial capital Harbin at 2051. Among those on board were five crew members and five children, officials from the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) told the Xinhua news agency. Henan Airlines earlier told Xinhua that the plane was carrying 96 people. Sun Bangnan, the deputy director of Heilongjiang's public security department, said the majority of those rescued had not suffered life-threatening injuries. Unconfirmed reports said Yichun City's Lindu airport had been shrouded in heavy fog at the time of the crash. A 20-strong team of CAAC officials and technicians have reportedly already left for Yichun City to begin an investigation. Lindu airport is a small domestic facility that opened only last year. Henan Airlines is a joint venture between Shenzhen Airlines of China and Mesa Air Group of the US, and is based in Henan province. It was previously known as Kunpeng Airlines. The BBC's Martin Patience in Beijing says China has seen a rapid expansion in its domestic airlines in recent years and generally they have a good safety record. The last serious air accident was in 2004, when a passenger plane crashed into a frozen lake near the northern city of Baotou, killing all 53 people on board. Two people on the ground also died.
Two-thirds of the British public are unable to name a single famous female scientist, according to an ICM poll. The same survey, organised by the Royal Society, revealed that 90% of 18-24 year-olds could not name a female scientific figure - either current or historical. Almost half were able to name at least one famous male scientist, such as Albert Einstein. The Royal Society's Lorna Casselton described the results as "frustrating". But the same poll also indicated that parents see scientists as good role models for their daughters. Respondents were offered a choice of six "role model types" for a daughter - ranging from a doctor or lawyer to an athlete or pop star. Almost half of the 1,000 adults questioned chose "life-saving doctor", while "Nobel prize-winning scientist" came second, with 20% selecting it as their first choice. According to the findings, public knowledge of the role played by women in major scientific breakthroughs is also low. Just 6% of those polled knew that a female scientist (Jocelyn Bell Burnell) played a major part in the discovery of pulsar stars. Only 18% were aware that another woman, Dorothy Hodgkin, discovered the structure of insulin. Professor Casselton, who is vice-president of the Royal Society, said: "People are still unaware of the contribution made by women to science in the past, [but] overall I am encouraged by the findings of this poll. "They suggest public perceptions of women in science are changing. [We] want to encourage more girls (and their parents) to see science as an achievable and desirable career path. "Most importantly we want to encourage them to see science not only as a fulfilling career but one that can change the world and contribute to our quality of life."
A police officer who admitted snooping through the force computer and obtaining personal data about people has been fined £4,800. Pc Adrian Merron, 46, was due to stand trial on a total of 58 charges. But the Lothian and Borders officer admitted 10 charges and the Crown accepted not guilty pleas to the rest. Six of the charges were viewing records about crimes of public indecency. Merron is still suspended from the force while inquiries are carried out. One charge was looking at information about a domestic incident, another related to a drunk man and another was intelligence on a female involved in prostitution. The last charge involved the accused logging on to view information relating to a sex assault on a female bus passenger in Edinburgh. Fiscal depute Gillian More said: "The police witnesses carried out the surveillance and established that the accused was regularly viewing personal information in crime reports, intelligence logs and operational incidents. "His desktop activity on each computer was recorded by these officers." Defence agent David Hunter said: "Although there is the statutory defence of accessing the information for police purposes that does not really apply here. "His nose got the better of him and he was curious." Sheriff Derrick McIntyre asked Mr Hunter if Merron could be described as a "nosy parker" who was "filling in time"? The solicitor replied: "There is really no legitimate reason for accessing the information other than curiosity." A Lothian and Borders police spokesman said: "While he has been under investigation he has been suspended from duty and has had no access to any data systems. "He will remain suspended while consideration is given to any breaches of the police conduct regulations."
The original Kermit the Frog has been donated to the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History in Washington. The muppet was donated by creator Jim Henson's widow Jane, along with nine other characters from the 1955 TV show Sam and Friends. Some of the other muppets in the collection include early versions of Cookie Monster and Oscar the Grouch. Henson's oldest puppet, Pierre the French Rat, was also donated. Jane Henson said the original characters provided five minutes of fun each night after the local news where they mostly mimed to popular music. "I think people realized that if you put Kermit's face up there, it was just as powerful - we were mostly just doing it to entertain ourselves," she said. The Smithsonian already has a familiar Kermit the Frog puppet made famous on Sesame Street and The Muppet Show. But the original Kermit looked more like a lizard, made with ping-pong ball eyes and green felt from an old coat thrown out by Henson's mother. Museum curator Dwight Blocker Bowers said the muppets would be a boon for the museum's collection. "It certainly shows the muppets at the beginning of the career of a large family of entertainers," he said. "More than anything, I think it shows the genius of Jim Henson." Bowers said the museum plans to have the original muppets on display by November in the pop culture gallery. The Hensons are also to give the Smithsonian more puppets in the years to come, possibly including a Miss Piggy to join her amphibian boyfriend.
The gold-plated statue of Turkmenistan's late leader, Saparmurat Niyazov, has been removed from its giant plinth in the capital, Ashgabat. President Kurbanguly Berdymukhamedov, who took power after the strongman's death in 2006, gave the order to remove the monument in January. The rotation of the statue, which always faced the sun, was stopped several weeks ago. On Wednesday it was removed and workers are now tackling the huge tripod base. The 15m (50ft) statue and its 75m marble-covered plinth - called the Arch of Neutrality - were seen as representative of the excesses of Mr Niyazov. The self-styled "Turkmenbashi" - meaning the father of all Turkmen - established a comprehensive personality cult. Streets, cities and months were named after him and his family, and portraits of him hung across the country. Since his death his successor, Mr Berdymukhamedov, has overseen efforts to remove the most prominent reminders of the late leader. He has promised to introduce reform in the Central Asian nation, which under Mr Niyazov experienced two decades of authoritarian rule and near-total isolation from the outside world. But critics say reforms to date have been mostly cosmetic - media remains controlled by the state, which has only one political party.
Doctors have removed 13 nails and five needles from a Sri Lankan housemaid who said her employer in Saudi Arabia hammered them into her body. LP Ariyawathie, 49, told staff at Kamburupitiya Hospital her employer inflicted the injuries as a punishment. X-rays showed that there were 24 nails and needles in her body. Doctors said those remaining inside her body posed no immediate threat to her life. The nails were up to 2in (5cm) long, a hospital official said. "The surgery is successful and she is recovering now," Dr Satharasinghe said, according to news agency Associated Press. Ms Ariyawathie, a mother of three, underwent a three-hour procedure. Doctors said they would carry out further surgery later to remove the remaining nails. Ms Ariyawathie travelled to Saudi Arabia in March to become a housemaid. Last week, she flew back to Sri Lanka and was admitted to hospital in the south of the island, where she told doctors she had undergone abuse for more than a month. The doctors found 24 metal pieces in her legs and hands. She could not sit down or walk properly, doctors said. They said Ms Ariyawathie was deeply traumatised and unable to give full details of her experience. Meanwhile, Sri Lankan authorities have launched an investigation. "We have launched a strong protest with the Saudi government through the external affairs minister, but there has been no response yet," Kingsley Ranawaka, chairman of Bureau for Foreign Employment, told the BBC. Around 1.8 million Sri Lankans are employed abroad, 70% of whom are women. Most work as housemaids in the Middle East, while smaller numbers work in Singapore and Hong Kong.
A group behind plans to rejuvenate part of a town centre is celebrating after striking a deal to buy a piece of land. The Society to Sustain and Support the Rural Countryside has raised money to buy the Pwllhai site in Cardigan, Ceredigion, by selling shares. It wants to build a car park for 100 vehicles, and hopes to develop a community shop to promote local goods. The group said it would exchange contracts for the site next month. A campaign was launched in June to buy the old farmers' co-op and surrounding buildings. So far, 300 people have bought shares at Â£200 each. The share offer has also been boosted by a bank loan. The society, a not-for-profit consortium, has the backing of the town's chamber of commerce and Ceredigion AM Elin Jones. Other backers said the project would breathe new life into the town centre. Society chair Shan Williams said: "This has been a fantastic achievement with local people taking control of local issues. "Many people have bought shares for their children to invest in the their future and the town's." Treasurer Cris Tomos said shareholders could receive a 5% dividend from the project. The share offer will remain open until contracts are exchanged at the end of September.
Cornflowers, marigolds and Californian poppies have added a golden hue to specially-designed meadows around the Olympic Stadium in east London. Wild flowers in the meadows, the size of about 10 football pitches, were selected by experts from Sheffield University to bloom during the Games. The flowers were selected to support the Marsh Fritillary and Meadow Brown butterflies and Burnet Moths. The meadows are set to become one of the country's largest urban parks. Nigel Dunnett, of the University of Sheffield, said: "The Olympic Park meadows have been carefully formulated to flower at their peak during the Games, producing exciting, vibrant sheets of uplifting colour, with high biodiversity value. "To achieve this peak performance, with a beautiful blend of colours at exactly the right time, is no mean feat. "We are extremely encouraged and excited by the results from the sowings this year." Olympic Delivery Authority Chief Executive David Higgins said: "The wildflower meadows, wetlands, woods and lawns in the Olympic Park will provide a green and colourful setting in 2012 and a new great park for people and wildlife after the Games. "We are doing everything possible to ensure this is a great park for the Games and legacy and a showcase for British park design."
The Chinese navy has begun artillery exercises in the Yellow Sea, days before the US and South Korea hold similar manoeuvres there. State media called the drills "annual routine training, mainly involving the shooting of shipboard artillery". China opposes the joint US-South Korea exercises, the latest of which begins on 5 September. Those drills are intended as a show of force to North Korea, following the sinking of a South Korean warship. The Cheonan went down on 26 March near the inter-Korean border with the loss of 46 lives. International investigators say a North Korean torpedo sank the ship, but Pyongyang denies any role in the sinking. The Chinese exercises are taking place off the eastern city of Qingdao, Xinhua news agency said, and are due to run until 4 September. China also held air exercises over its east coast in August, in what was seen as a response to the joint US-South Korea drills. Washington and Seoul are engaging in a series of exercises in the wake of the Cheonan incident, some of which are taking place in the Yellow Sea, which lies between the Korean peninsula and China. The latest drill, which will run until 9 September, "will focus on anti-submarine warfare tactics, including detecting and destroying North Korean submarines", an unidentified military official told South Korea's Yonhap news agency. China says the drills could destabilise the region and strongly opposes them. They also come at a time of tension between China and several nations over conflicting territorial claims in regional seas. In July US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton angered Beijing when she said a peaceful resolution of territorial disputes between China and several South East Asian nations in the South China Sea was a "national interest" of the US.
The body of a prominent Afghan broadcast journalist has been found near his home in the capital, Kabul, police say. The man, Sayed Hamid Noori, was a TV anchor for the state network Radio Television Afghanistan. He had been stabbed to death. Police said that Mr Noori received a telephone call late on Sunday which prompted him to leave his flat. President Hamid Karzai has told the interior minister to investigate. So far there are no indications of who killed Mr Noori or why. "Someone called him and asked him to come down from his apartment last night. His body was found later by police in a tree-covered area near his home," deputy Kabul police chief Khalilullah Dastyar told the AFP news agency. Correspondents say that Afghanistan remains one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. At least 14 have been killed because of their work since the Taliban were ousted by US-led forces in 2001, according to media rights watchdog Reporters Without Borders. Afghan Independent Journalists' Association (AIJA) head Rahimullah Samander said the government must do more to protect Afghan and foreign journalists. "We strongly condemn this brutal act and urge the government not to ignore it like past incidents," he told the Reuters news agency.
BBC business editor Robert Peston on the plight of property services group Connaught, the property services group that specialises in social housing, is on the brink of going into administration, according to bankers close to the company. An announcement is expected tomorrow, I have learned. Connaught, which employs 10,000 people, has Â£220m of debt, provided by half a dozen banks and a quartet of other creditors. The lead bank is Royal Bank of Scotland, which recently provided Connaught with a further Â£15m in an attempt to keep the group going. Connaught ran into serious difficulties over the past couple of months, after it emerged that a series of contracts would be lossmaking. The management, under a new chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, the chairmen of Compass, the catering giant, has tried to put together a rescue plan. However its bank creditors have decided instead to put the business in administration, under UK insolvency procedures. In spite of the severity of the economic crisis that engulfed the UK in 2008, few listed businesses have collapsed. In that sense, Connaught, a FTSE 250 company which at one stage had a market value of well over Â£500m, is unusual. You can keep up with the latest from business editor Robert Peston by visiting his blog on the BBC News website.
A diplomatic row has intensified between China and Japan after collisions between two Japanese patrol boats and a Chinese trawler on Tuesday. Beijing has urged Japan's ambassador to stop the "illegal interception" of Chinese fishing boats. Meanwhile, Japan has arrested the captain of the Chinese vessel. The incidents in the East China Sea took place near a disputed chain of islands, which Japan controls but are claimed by both China and Taiwan. According to state media the Chinese authorities told the Japanese ambassador that his country must stop what it called illegal interceptions of Chinese fishing boats. A Japanese Coast Guard spokesman said the Chinese vessel had collided with two Japanese patrol boats in two separate incidents, 40 minutes apart. No injuries were reported. She said the 41-year-old captain of the fishing boat had been arrested after repeatedly ignoring requests to leave the area. A China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said China had repeated its claim to the Diaoyu islands and urged Japanese patrol boats in the area against any "so-called law enforcement activities or any actions that would jeopardise Chinese fishing boats or Chinese people". The BBC's Martin Patience in Beijing says the collisions are the latest example of rising tensions between the two countries over territorial rights in the East China Sea. The disputed chain of uninhabited islands which Japan controls are also claimed by China and Taiwan. China calls them the Diaoyu islands while Japan refers to them as the Senkaku islands. In the past Japan has lodged protests with China over entry of the country's vessels in to water close to this territory.
Central London's Cycle Hire scheme recorded its busiest day on Tuesday, during the 24-hour Tube strike. 'White Van Man' haunts re-distribution of Boris bikes Nearly 24,000 journeys were made using the bikes, which Transport for London said was 5,960 more than usual for the hire scheme launched on 30 July. Tube workers from the Rail, Maritime and Transport union and the Transport Salaried Staffs Association were on strike until 2100 BST on Tuesday. They are fighting London Underground plans to scrap 800 ticket office jobs. But LU has insisted all stations would still be staffed and pledged there would be no compulsory redundancies. "During the strike Londoners took to two wheels in huge numbers," an LU spokeswoman said. The cycle scheme was so heavily used the docking stations at some of London's mainline stations became empty before 0800 BST. An LU spokeswoman said vehicles redistributing the bikes to docking stations experienced more traffic on the roads than usual during the strikes, which may have delayed refilling the docking stations. About 5,000 cycles are available across 335 locations in central London as part of the scheme. Cyclists have to pay an access fee from Â£1 a day plus usage time, with the first 30 minutes of cycling free.
The Duchess of Cornwall has viewed an exhibition by Angel of the North sculptor Antony Gormley on a roof in East Sussex. The 60 life-size cast iron human figures of Critical Mass, one of Gormley's best-known works, are on show at Bexhill's De La Warr Pavilion. The Duchess, president of the pavilion, visited the Grade I listed building for its 75th anniversary. She also toured the Tomok Takahashi Introspective Retrospective exhibition. Vice-chair of the Pavilion, Sara Stonor, told the Duchess in front of the invited audience: "It was the vision of the 9th Earl De La Warr to create a people's palace in Bexhill. He chose the best architects of his day in Mendelsohn and Chermayeff. "We continue to this day in choosing the very best international exhibitions and performances to fill this remarkable space." The pavilion was commissioned by the ninth Earl De La Warr, designed by Erich Mendelsohn and Serge Chermayeff, and opened in 1935. The Duchess  sat down to speak to 100-year-old George Korner, a cousin of Mr Chermayeff. She then visited Chailey Heritage School for disabled children and young adults in North Chailey, Lewes and met children, staff and volunteers. Principal Sylvia Lamb and head teacher Simon Yates showed her facilities including the multi sensory studio and horse riding area.
Air Zimbabwe says striking pilots who defied a 24-hour deadline to return to work should consider themselves fired. The pilots and cabin crew walked out of work on Wednesday, demanding payment of allowances that were cut off in February. The cash-strapped national airline says it cannot meet the pilots' demands. The national carrier will be hiring planes from South African private airline Quaries and its pilot to ply the regional and local routes. The Friday deadline has come and gone and the striking pilots are still digging in. Air Zimbabwe chairman Jonathan Kadzura says they are not going to entertain the pilots' demands, and the pilots should consider themselves fired. He said in actual fact, they fired themselves by embarking on an illegal protest. The Air Zimbabwe board will meet again on Tuesday to map the way forward. Mr Kadzura says other regional arlines and pilots will be engaged to help the situation, as the national airline is losing half a million US dollars a day as a result of the strike. Close to 1,000 stranded passengers have been booked into hotels, after the Air Zimbabwe flights were cancelled. There is no sign that the pilots will ever bow down to management demands that they return to work. The industrial action is compounding Air Zimbabwe's financial woes and denting its image. The striking pilots are tight lipped, maintaining a distance from the media. Since Wednesday, pilots and management have been involved in marathon meetings, which until now have proved fruitless. The labour dispute is expected to spill into the courts.
A converted former vinegar factory is due to be handed over to the Territorial Army in Worcestershire for its training centre and headquarters. The 104th Regiment Royal Artillery volunteers will take possession later of the Worcester vinegar works built by Hill, Evans & Company in the 1850s. It was refurbished by developers Carillion Richardson in exchange for the army's former HQ in Silver Street. The developers want to convert the former base into an Asda store. The artillery regiment said the new development in Lowesmoor would boost the local profile of the army. The Great Filling Hall, where vinegar barrels were stored, would be used by the TA as a parade hall and offices. Lt Col Phil Shepheard-Walwyn said: "We now have some excellent new facilities in Worcester which will boost our training capability at an important time. "The regiment is currently focused on providing unmanned aerial vehicle operators, to support current operations in Afghanistan, and training personnel who will form part of the British contribution to the United Nations Forces in Cyprus next year." Col Tim Weeks, Chief Executive of the West Midlands Reserve Forces and Cadets Association said: "This is a development of national significance and will boost the profile of the armed forces in Worcestershire." Martyn Richardson from Carillion Richardson said: "We are delighted to provide this vital facility for the TA at this important time and the whole of this development will create much needed jobs and provide a massive boost to the regeneration of the city."
The new MP for Montgomeryshire is to spend time in hospital later this month to correct an irregular heartbeat. Conservative Glyn Davies, 66, said he would receive electric shock treatment for the complaint. Mr Davies, who beat Liberal Democrat Lembit Opik to win the seat in May, was admitted to hospital in July with the heart problem. The MP was last week appointed parliamentary private secretary to Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan. Mr Davies said he had been suffering with the minor heart complaint for about a year, and the procedure to put it right was "very common". "I've been told I'm suffering from atrial fibrillation (abnormal heart rhythm) and I understand it is similar to what Tony Blair had," said Mr Davies, who is a former assembly member. "Later this month I'll have electric shock treatment to correct the problem. "I was told that I'd probably been suffering with it for about 12 months. I don't know why it happened, but I understand it's the most common heart complaint and the procedure to put it right is minor." 'Great honour' He said he spent three days in hospital in July after suffering the heart problem, which forced him to delay his maiden speech in the Commons. Former Prime Minister Tony Blair received hospital treatment for an irregular heartbeat in 2003 and 2004. In 2002, Mr Davies underwent surgery for bowel cancer. Meanwhile, the MP said his appointment as Ms Gillan's parliamentary private secretary was a "great honour".
China has postponed a senior official's visit to Japan amid a diplomatic row over the arrest of a Chinese skipper after a collision in disputed waters. The trawler captain has been held since his ship hit two Japanese patrol boats a week ago near islands in the East China Sea claimed by China and Japan. The Japanese authorities released the 14 crew members on Monday. Meanwhile, Japan has turned back a boat of Taiwan activists who sailed to the islands to claim Taiwanese sovereignty. Their return to Taipei prompted a protest outside the de facto Japanese embassy in Taipei, where demonstrators hurled fish and burned flags. The vice chair of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Li Jianguo, had been expected to visit Japan at the invitation of the Japanese lower house of parliament. But Beijing said it was delaying the trip "for various reasons", a Japanese official said. Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku said the decision was "very regrettable", adding that "in times like these, lawmakers should be able to talk frankly". Japanese prosecutors have until 19 September to decide whether to lay formal charges against the Chinese captain. The Chinese fishing boat reportedly rammed Japanese coast guard patrol boats which had been trying to intercept it. China has made repeated protests over the incident and warned that it could harm bilateral ties and has cancelled a series of diplomatic negotiations with Japan over oil and gas fields in the region in protest. The area where the Chinese trawler was seized a week ago is close to uninhabited islands, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, which are controlled by Japan but also claimed by China and Taiwan.
Jay Hunt is to leave her role as controller of BBC One to become chief creative officer at Channel 4. Hunt said she was "proud of what has been achieved on BBC One" but "could not resist the chance to join Channel 4 at such an exciting time." Jana Bennett, the BBC's director of vision, said Hunt had "led BBC One with great commitment and creative flair." Her appointment follows that of David Abraham, who was made Channel 4's new chief executive in January. "Channel 4 requires a fearless creative leader to help steer us through our next phase," he said. "Jay has demonstrated... her appetite to challenge the status quo, create and lead change, and promote new talent." Julian Bellamy is currently Channel 4's acting chief creative officer and will leave the station after "a short period of transition". The newly created chief creative officer role combines the channel's former two most senior creative posts, Head of Channel 4 and Director of Television and Content. Hunt's successes at BBC One include the modern update of Sherlock Holmes, crime thriller Luther and hard-hitting drama Five Daughters. She was previously controller of BBC Daytime and worked as editor of the One O'Clock and Six O'Clock News. Hunt was director of programmes at Five when she was appointed BBC One's controller in 2007.
A pilot project is under way offering surfing as therapy on the NHS for young people in Cornwall. Over the next six weeks professional surfers will run one-to-one lessons for 20 young people with diagnosed mental health needs. The aim is to give them therapy through building confidence and help them learn a new skill. The project, which is costing a total of Â£5,000, is worth the money, said Cornwall Primary Care Trust (PCT). Joe McEvoy, who commissioned the service for the PCT, said: "I think it will offer excellent value. "It's a long-established body of evidence which shows that when you organise therapeutic activities around particular tasks, people benefit not just from social interaction but also build confidence. "That's been one of the tenets of occupational therapy which has been an established therapeutic discipline in all sections of health care for many decades." The participants are all aged between 12 and 25 and have been referred into the scheme by local charities and mental health professionals. Another scheme, offering surfing therapy to armed forces personnel suffering from post traumatic stress disorder, started in Cornwall in 2009. Mr McEvoy said: "The coast is one of our greatest assets and it makes sense to use it to improve the health and wellbeing of our patients. "There are many positive health benefits that flow from physical activity and people who are suffering from poor mental health can also gain from improved self-esteem and doing things which are enjoyable." The surfing lessons are being delivered by Polzeath-based adventure company Era Adventures, which came up with the idea of offering 12 half-day sessions at beaches including Watergate Bay. A spokesman said: "This is a really exciting opportunity and a great way of using surfing in the community."
Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen has admitted that a controversial radio interview he gave on Tuesday was not his "best performance". Mr Cowen had to deny being drunk or hungover during the RTE interview. The taoiseach was interviewed live from his party's conference, which is taking place in Galway. On Wednesday he said: "I'm sorry that it emerged in the quality it did. There was a hoarseness in my voice throughout the day yesterday." He added: "It wasn't my best performance and I would like to apologise for that. "I would hate to think the reputation of the country or the office of taoiseach would in any way be affected by what I had to say." Mr Cowen again denied any suggestions he was hungover. "The assertions made subsequent to it were without justification, without foundation, were not correct, were not true," he said. Mr Cowen had attended the Fianna Fail party dinner at the Ardilaun Hotel in Galway on Monday night. Following the interview, the finance spokesman for the Republic's opposition claimed there were concerns over the leadership of the country. "There was a feeling this morning that this can't continue, the game is up," said Fine Gael's Michael Noonan. Simon Coveney, also of Fine Gael, who said in a Twitter message on Tuesday that Mr Cowen sounded "half-way between drunk and hungover" in the interview, has said he accepted the taoiseach's apology. Mr Coveney said that he believed Mr Cowen, but added that he did not regret his previous tweet. He said it took "a big person to apologise when big mistakes are made as was the case yesterday morning and the Taosieach should be recognised for that."
A £9.5m museum to commemorate the Battle of Britain in the RAF's headquarters of the time has been given the green light in north London. Bentley Priory, in Harrow, was home to Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding's Fighter Command in the summer of 1940. On the 70th anniversary of the decisive clash - in which the RAF repelled a German bid for air supremacy - Harrow Council permitted the museum. A developer will also be allowed to build 103 homes on the site. The rooms of Bentley Priory's Grade II-listed mansion house will now be open to the public for the first time in 80 years. The museum is intended to pay respect to the Battle of Britain's RAF pilots, of whom Winston Churchill said: "Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few." Bill Stephenson, leader of Harrow Council, said: "This decision will mean the spiritual home of the few is preserved for all. "We must never forget the courage and sacrifice of the RAF pilots and ground staff during the Battle of Britain. "Their actions truly changed the course of history in Europe and helped give each and every one of us the freedoms we enjoy today." Air Chief Marshal Sir Brian Burridge, chairman of the Bentley Priory Battle of Britain Trust, said: "This represents the culmination of five years' hard work to ensure the priory and all it stands has a future as a museum. "There is now much work to do in fundraising - and Churchill would have recognised that, 'This is not the beginning of the end, merely the end of the beginning'."
A printing factory fire in West Calder, which involved 70 firefighters and 12 appliances, has been extinguished. Emergency services were called to the blaze at Amcor Flexibles at Brucefield Industrial Estate just before 1200 BST. One person was taken to St Johns hospital in Livingston where they are being treated for superficial wounds. Earlier, residents were warned to stay indoors and keep their doors and windows closed because of fears over possible toxic fumes from chemicals. Lothian and Borders Fire and Rescue Service said the flames were eventually extinguished at about 1800 BST. At its peak, the fire created a huge plume of black smoke which could be seen for miles. Local resident Ann Mackay, 51, said: "I saw black smoke all the way from my home in Dedridge, a few miles away, and went to see what was happening. "I saw the front of the factory building and the sign was melting, but the police asked us to move back as they were evacuating the area." Neighbouring businesses on the Brucefield Industrial estate were also evacuated. Local train services between Kirknewton and Shotts were suspended as a precaution until further notice. Trains are running from Glasgow to Shotts, and from Kirknewton to Edinburgh. The main Edinburgh to Glasgow line is unaffected.
Northern Ireland's Attorney General has thrown a slipper at the great pyjama debate. Tugging tightly on a metaphorical dressing gown cord, John Larkin, QC, told a human rights conference in Belfast there were "some areas where it is not appropriate to involve lawyers". He was referring to a campaign by residents of a public housing association for the right to wear their pyjamas outdoors. Mr Larkin said the cause of human rights in Northern Ireland was in danger of being trivialised by misuse. The campaign was evidence of a "contemporary malaise" and misunderstanding of the term, "human rights", he said. In some parts of Belfast, wearing pyjamas for shopping or dropping children to school has become part of normal life. The trend has been dubbed: "All Day Pyjama Syndrome". In January, Tesco, the supermarket giant, drew the line and asked customers not to shop barefoot or in their night gear. Two years ago, Joe McGuinness, the principal of St Matthew's Primary School, sent a stern letter to parents saying wearing pyjamas on the school run was "slovenly and rude". However, Sinn Fein councillor Fra McCann has defended people's right to wear whatever they want. "A variety of clothing is worn outdoors, like shorts and vests, so why not pyjamas?" he said.
John Lennon's killer Mark David Chapman has told the parole board in New York he thought by killing the Beatle he would become a somebody. Instead, Chapman told the board that "I became a murderer and murderers are not somebodies", according to the published transcript of the interview. Chapman was denied parole for the sixth time last week. Chapman, now aged 55, shot and killed Lennon outside his New York apartment in December 1980. The former security guard, who experienced bouts of depression, told the parole board he had a list of people he wanted to kill, including the talk show host Johnny Carson and the actress Elizabeth Taylor. Lennon was at the top of the list. "I wasn't thinking clearly," Chapman stated, "I made a horrible decision to end another human being's life, for reasons of selfishness." "I felt that by killing John Lennon I would become somebody and instead of that I became a murderer and murderers are not somebodies," he said. In prison, Chapman works as a porter and a clerk in the law library. He told the parole officers a judge was willing to help him find a job and give him a place to stay if he was released. In a closing statement, Chapman said his life had changed because of Jesus. "I know him, he is with me, he is with me now, he is helping me speak to you now. Without him I am nothing, I would have been an even bigger nobody." After the interview, Chapman was denied parole yet again. The board said it remained concerned about the disregard he showed for the norms of society and the sanctity of human life.
Police have admitted having technical issues after releasing an e-fit of a burglary suspect which looks like a man wearing a lettuce. Officers released the image after a distraction burglary in which Â£60 was stolen from an elderly woman in Stockbridge, Hampshire. But the picture appeared to show the man with a lettuce on his head. Police said they were waiting for a software upgrade to improve the quality of hair in future e-fits. A spokesperson said that "while the hair on this image may not be of the best quality, it takes nothing from the overall clarity of the facial features". He added: "It would therefore be wrong to withhold the release of the e-fit just based on this technical issue. "We would never release an e-fit a victim disagreed or was unhappy with and in this instance the victim fully supported the publication of this image." The suspect had asked the woman for money for gardening work but stole Â£60 from her handbag He is described as white, between 40 and 45, about 5ft 8ins, with a round clean shaven face, large round eyes and with wavy blonde or greying hair. A Victim Support spokesperson said: "Victims or witnesses to a crime quite rightly want and expect the criminal justice system to try and bring someone to justice. "People put their trust in the system and the software and expect results, which would explain why people might be baffled by the picture. "But it wouldn't be fair to criticise the force if what they have done is produced the best possible image from the facilities and description available to them."
Crew diaries which had been locked away for 150 years are being reunited with Britain's oldest surviving warship at a special ceremony on Teesside. The journals were written by sailors on board HMS Trincomalee, which is berthed in Hartlepool. The vessel, built in 1817, is being incorporated into the new National Museum of the Royal Navy (NMRN). The journals have been sitting in Royal Navy archives in Portsmouth for the past 150 years. Built in India in 1817, HMS Trincomalee was brought to Hartlepool in 1987, where it took more than 10 years to restore. It is now the main attraction at Hartlepool's Maritime Experience and attracts 54,000 visitors a year. Bryn Hughes, general manager of the HMS Trincomalee Trust said: "The positive links with the NMRN in Portsmouth will heighten public awareness of HMS Trincomalee. "It is a wonderful long-term scheme following hard on the profile of the recent Tall Ships Races so successfully staged in Hartlepool." The rarely seen journals will eventually be included in the static Trincomalee exhibition in Hartlepool. One journal dates from 1852 and was kept by midshipman William Dawson. It contains a detailed log and tracking maps of the journeys that HMS Trincomalee took during that period. Dr Dominic Tweddle, director general of the NMRN, said: "The opportunity to welcome HMS Trincomalee as a part of the museum means that the story of the Royal Navy, its ships and its people can now be told on a national scale." HMS Trincomalee was built for the Admiralty in Bombay and served in the West Indies and the Pacific. It was stationed in West Hartlepool between 1862 and 1877 as a training ship.
Flooding and landslides triggered by Typhoon Fanapi have now killed 54 people and left at least 42 missing in southern China, state media said. Guangdong province experienced its heaviest rains in a century as the typhoon moved slowly westwards after making landfall on Monday. More than 78,000 people in low-lying areas were evacuated and one million affected, officials said. Meteorologists say the typhoon is the strongest to have hit China this year. The China Meteorological Administration (CMA) has forecast more heavy or torrential rains for parts of central and western parts of Guangdong. All of the dead were from Guangdong province, where some areas had reported rainfall of more than 640mm (25in) over the previous 24 hours, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency. Subsequent flooding and landslides had destroyed more than 1,400 homes and inundated more than 30,000 hectares of cropland, it added. Economic losses were estimated at about 2bn yuan ($298m). "Heavy rain cut off traffic and communications in the three worst-hit cities of Gaozhou, Xinyi and Yangchun," said He Guoqing, deputy chief of the flood control headquarters. Relief teams had been sent to the cities to help the thousands of people believed to be stranded there, Mr He added. Xinhua said the dead included five people killed when a dam at the Xinyi Yinyan tin mine in Xinyi city was hit by a landslide and collapsed. In southern Taiwan, two people died after Typhoon Fanapi caused flash floods. Tens of millions of dollars of damage was done.
Actor Sir Michael Gambon has returned to London's West End, one year on from his withdrawal from another stage play due to ill health. Dame Maggie Smith, David Walliams and Tom Hollander were in the first night audience at his solo performance of Krapp's Last Tape by Samuel Beckett. Sir Michael will perform the 52-minute play twice a night during its run. Last year the 69-year-old pulled out of Alan Bennett's The Habit of Art after doctors advised him to rest. His role was subsequently taken by Richard Griffiths in the National Theatre production. Sir Michael is no stranger to Beckett's enigmatic work, having performed it at the Gate Theatre in Dublin earlier this year. First staged in London in 1958, the play revolves around an old man listening to his younger self via taped recordings. "I'm so used to being in the West End that I find it quite usual," said Sir Michael after Wednesday night's performance at the Duchess Theatre. "First night is a bit frightening but you deal with it." Reviews so far have been positive, with the Guardian's critic praising Michael Colgan's "artfully pitched" production. The Telegraph, meanwhile, praised "the great Michael Gambon" and his "extraordinarily eloquent" voice.
Nine endangered animals are to be confiscated from a Ceredigion zoo after its owners admitted displaying animals without the proper paperwork. The animals, which include a leopard, two lynx and two ring-tailed lemurs, were found at Borth Animalarium, near Aberystwyth. Owners Alan and Jean Mumbray admitted not having the correct paperwork for a commercial premises in court on Monday. They were both fined and told the animals would be found new homes. Jean Mumbray was fined £937.50 and ordered to pay costs of £250, and Alan Mumbray was fined £300 and £100 costs at Aberystwyth Magistrates' Court, said Dyfed-Powys Police. Sgt Ian Guildford, a wildlife and environmental police officer with the force, said: "The use of the licensing system to control the sale and display of protected animals is a valuable tool in the fight against the trade in endangered animals. "Anyone who is involved in dealing with protected animals on a commercial scale such as zoos and other similar establishments should be aware of this and make every effort to comply with the legislation. "Without this, compliance loopholes are left open to those who treat endangered animals as a financial commodity." Nevin Hunter, of the Animal Health Wildlife Licensing and Registration Service, said the prosecution was "very significant" and showed that illegal use of endangered animals would not be tolerated. He added: "The vast majority of zoos and animal parks in the UK do so lawfully and play an important part in conserving endangered species. "However, those who choose to flout the regulations are on notice that we will take decisive action with police wildlife crime officers to ensure that prosecutions are taken forward. "I commend Sgt Ian Guildford, Dyfed-Powys Police, and the Crown Prosecution Service for taking forward the case and achieving this outcome."
The Queen was refused a heating grant because Whitehall officials feared a public relations backlash, it has been reported. A royal aide asked the government if the Queen was eligible for part of a Â£60m energy-saving fund in 2004, the Independent newspaper said. The aide was told grants were aimed at families on low incomes and a handout could result in "adverse publicity". A Buckingham Palace spokeswoman has declined to comment. According to documents which were obtained by the Independent under the Freedom of Information Act, the Queen's deputy treasurer wrote to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, saying the cost of the Queen's gas and electricity bills - which had doubled in 2004 - stood at Â£1m a year and had become "untenable". The Royal Household also complained that the Â£15m government grant to maintain the Queen's palaces was inadequate. It said the grant request was to replace four combined heat and power units at Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle. In an apologetic e-mail to the Palace, the government said the handouts were aimed at schools, hospitals, councils and housing associations - for heating programmes to benefit families on low incomes. The official also expressed concern that if Buckingham Palace were given money from the fund it would lead to "probable adverse press coverage". The e-mail, which was written in August 2004, said: "I think this is where the Community Energy Funding is directed and ties in with most allocations going to community heating schemes run by local authorities, housing associations, universities etc. "I also feel a bit uneasy about the probable adverse press coverage if the Palace were given a grant at the expense of say a hospital. Sorry this doesn't sound more positive."
China's government says it will impose import duties on US chicken products it says are being unfairly dumped on the Chinese market. From Monday, duties of up to 105.4% will be imposed on US chicken imports for the next five years, the China's ministry of commerce said in statement. It said an investigation had concluded that US imports were hurting the domestic chicken industry. The move is the latest in a growing trade dispute between China and the US. On Friday a US Congress committee approved a bill allowing tariffs to be imposed on imports from currency manipulating countries. The bill is aimed at China, which is accused of keeping the yuan artificially low to help its exporters. In its statement the ministry of commerce defended its decision to impose the latest tariffs, saying there was a "causal relationship" between the "US dumping of broiler products and the losses suffered by domestic business". The tariffs are likely to have a significant impact on US chicken exporters, who rely on sales of chicken feet and wings to China. Some US companies will pay lower tariffs because they co-operated with China's investigation into the industry, the commerce department said. These include Tyson Foods, Keystone Foods and Pilgrim's Pride Corporation. But these tariffs will still be higher than the preliminary tariff of 43.1% announced by the Chinese government in February.
The Plaid Cymru AM for Aberconwy, Gareth Jones, will stand down from the Welsh assembly at next year's election. Mr Jones, 71, represented Conwy in the assembly's first election in 1999, but lost his seat by 72 votes in 2003. A former headmaster, he returned to the Senedd when he won the redrawn constituency of Aberconwy in 2007. The chair of the enterprise and learning scrutiny committee said it had been a "huge privilege and a rare honour" to represent his electors. Mr Jones, who was awarded the OBE in 1991 for services to education, said he was "eternally grateful to the people for giving me that opportunity". He had been head of Ysgol John Bright in Llandudno, Conwy, and an independent educational consultant before the 1999 election. He became Plaid education spokesman and chaired the assembly education committee. After his 2003 defeat he became leader of the Plaid group on Conwy council before returning to the assembly. "Early on in my professional career as a teacher I never imagined that I would be in this position, nor that Wales would have a semblance of self-government, but I've enjoyed it immensely and will miss it greatly," he said. "I hope I've been able to contribute something to our fledgling democracy here in Wales. "I also hope that the next fourth assembly will see someone elected who shares my passion both for this constituency and for this nation and someone who will finally have the right tools to get on with the job of representing the people of Aberconwy in a proper parliament for Wales." Voters will go to the polls next May, and Mr Jones will stand down when the assembly is dissolved at the end of March.
Plans for a faster rail route between East Lancashire and Manchester have moved a step closer. Network Rail has agreed to pay for a final assessment of a plan to reinstate the Todmorden Curve rail link. The 500m section of track, which has not been used since the 1960s, connects the Burnley to Manchester lines and would cut travel time to 40 minutes. Commuters currently have to change trains at Hebden Bridge, meaning the journey takes one hour 20 minutes. A spokesman for Network Rail said it would need money from other bodies - possibly the local council or from the North West Development Agency - to bring the plans to fruition. Hyndburn MP Graham Jones said he is "confident" the Todmorden Curve will be up and running in three years' time. "They [Network Rail] have just committed ??300,000 to finalise the study to put the track back and it is a top priority, so I really think it will go ahead." He said on his blog: "This is something I have campaigned vigorously for. Manchester is an economic major growth area and still growing and we must take advantage of that. "Good public transport always makes for greater economic prosperity. It gives people social and economic mobility."
A lifeboatman is being given the runaround, after his pet parrot Billy learnt to mimic the sound of his emergency pager. His owner, Joe Quayle of New Quay, says he cannot tell the difference between the real thing and Billy's 'pager'. He said the only way he could tell if it was a really 'shout' was to check the pager. The 10-year-old African grey, also wolf whistles, calls Joe's children and confuses the family dog Sweep. "I have to keep the pager with me so I can check it if I hear it," said Mr Quayle who runs the post office and shop at Cross Inn near New Quay, Ceredigion. "He is a very good mimic and I just can't tell the difference, and it has made me run a couple of times before I've realised," he added. Mr Quayle said Billy also shouts for his children, Elouise and Alex, and gets the family dog Sweep to run up by whistling and calling him in his wife's voice. Billy's other 'talent' of wolf whistling has nearly got Mr Quayle into trouble. "He did it once when there was a customer looking into the fridge, with her back to me, and she swung round. I had to explain it was the parrot," he said. Such is Billy's appetite for new sounds that when he once escaped he came back from three days at a local farm mooing like the cows in the dairy, Mr Quayle said. "We won't get rid of him though because he is part of the family," he added. "They live for a long time and he's the kid's inheritance," he said.
A public consultation is being launched over whether the NHS in England and Wales should offer financial incentives to encourage healthier lifestyles. NICE, the advisory body for the health service, has already been exploring the issue. But it now wants to know what the public thinks after the idea got the thumbs up from its citizen's council. Nearly two thirds of the 32-strong group - used as a sounding board for sensitive topics - backed incentives. In May, NICE officials told the BBC incentives could play a key role in tackling smoking, obesity and drinking rates and was working with academics to see how and when they worked best. Merit Its citizen's council agrees the idea has merit - as long as the payments are not allowed to be used for unhealthy pursuits. The backing has prompted the public consultation which will be run until the end of November. Incentive schemes are already operated in some areas to mixed success, while NICE has already backed their use for drug users. However, it is unlikely the current government would allow NICE to formally recommend incentives as an option for the whole health service. A Department of Health spokesman described them as an undesirable use of money and should only be adopted as a "last resort". Instead, it seems the only way the advisory body would end up backing them would be for niche groups, such as specific age groups or for people from certain social backgrounds, if there was strong evidence they worked. NICE chairman Sir Michael Rawlins said: "We clearly face several public health challenges in today's society, some more obvious than others, and we must seek to improve these in ways that are likely to achieve the best health outcomes for those affected."
An "international currency war" is underway, Brazil's finance minister, Guido Mantega, has warned. His comments follow a series of interventions by governments to weaken their currencies and boost export competitiveness. Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan are among those that have recently tried to cut the value of their currencies. In a speech in Sao Paulo, Mr Mantega said the competitive devaluations were effectively a new trade war. "We're in the midst of an international currency war," he told a meeting of industrial leaders. "This threatens us because it takes away our competitiveness. "The advanced countries are seeking to devalue their currencies." Mr Mantega has been trying to talk down the value of Brazilian real. The currency is at a 10-month high against the dollar, and has been described by analysts at Goldman Sachs as the world's most overvalued major currency. Last week's $70bn share offering by state-oil company Petrobras has contributed to a massive inflow of dollars to Brazil, which is attractive to foreign investors because of high interest rates and its rapid economic growth. Mantega said the country still had an "arsenal" of tools available to weaken the real, although he did not explicitly talk about intervention to weaken the currency.
A woman who dyed her cat pink with food colouring will have her pet returned to her. However, the RSPCA said Natasha Gregory, 22, from Swindon, would also be informed of the potential hazards of dyeing cats. The cat, called oi! Kitty, was reportedly seen being thrown over the garden fence of a man on 18 September, who called RSPCA officers. An RSPCA spokeswoman at the time criticised it as a "sick prank". The organisation's officers washed the two-year-old cat, but its colour only faded slightly. Following widespread media coverage, Miss Gregory, who has pink hair and says she "loves" the colour, contacted the RSPCA and asked them to return the animal. She told the BBC: "I love my cat - that cat is fed better than most people. I wanted people to know she wasn't harmed at all. "I wont be doing it again - I was so shocked to see my cat on the news. I thought I'd never see her again." An RSPCA spokeswoman said the organisation would visit Miss Gregory to give her advice on animal care. She added: "Following the visit, as no offence has been committed and as a vet has confirmed the cat is in good health, she will be returned to her owner." She said the dye would have to grow out.
Police in County Donegal are investigating the release of thousands of American mink from a farm in Ardara on Saturday. The owners of the farm in the Meenavalley area are blaming what they call "animal liberation terrorists". The farm held approximately 33,000 mink but most did not leave the perimeter. However, it is estimated that up to 5,000 of the animals may have made it into the wild. Many have since been killed by motorists. Eimear Magee, a conservation ranger for the area, said she was "extremely alarmed" when she heard about the incident. She said the animals were a major threat to bird colonies. "The mink don't just take enough to feed themselves, they destroy the whole colony. Once that happens to a tern colony they'll move. They won't get a chance to breed successfully again that year," she said. American mink were first brought to Ireland in the 1950s to be farmed for their fur. Ms Magee said that since then, many mink have escaped into the wild or have been intentionally released. "They breed quite prolificly. They have no natural predators here. There's not a waterway in Ireland that doesn't have a mink population." She said the animals have had a devastating impact on water fowl which are not very good fliers and tend to spend a lot of time on the ground. Populations of moorhen and coot have been seriously damaged by feral mink. The Irish National Parks and Wildlife Service, local gun clubs and staff from a neighbouring mink farm are assisting with the effort to recapture the runaways.
The death toll from Tropical Storm Nicole in Jamaica has risen to five following flash floods and mudslides triggered by the storm, officials say. At least seven others are missing, swept away by floodwaters, Jamaica's disaster management office said. The latest victims include two men who died when a house in Kingston collapsed in a slide triggered by heavy rain on saturated ground. Nicole broke apart over the Atlantic late on Wednesday afternoon. Washed away But intermittent rains increased the risk of additional landslides across the island. Emergency workers were trying to locate at least seven missing people, most of whom were believed to have been washed away in slides that roared through Kingston shanty towns. Schools and universities stayed closed for a second day, while about 30% of those served by Jamaica's utility company were without power, officials said. Prime Minister Bruce Golding, who surveyed the damage by helicopter on Wednesday, said the recovery would "cost a significant amount of money". Nicole is the latest storm of the Atlantic hurricane season. The storm's remnants have now begun moving up the east coast of America. The US National Hurricane Center in Miami, Florida, said there was a fair chance the weather system could develop into a tropical depression in the next couple of days, raising the possibility of coastal flooding.
Whether it is wood chip or William Morris, there are many forms of wallpaper. And the National Trust, which holds one of the world's biggest collections, has started cataloguing every scrap in its collection. Members have been meeting at the trust's Erddig Hall, Wrexham, where there is already an extensive collection with the oldest dated to the early 1700s. "We care for paper in all sorts of contexts," said Joanne Hodgson, assistant house steward at Erddig. "It's on walls, ceilings, inside boxes and cupboards, fragments that have been found behind water pipes and skirting boards, and even a miniature collection in our dolls' house. "We also have one of the oldest exactly dated wallpapers at Erddig date stamped 1714." The wallpaper working group is trying to decide how best to catalogue its wallpaper given most of its examples remain in situ. Erddig's grand rooms are lined with early examples of wallpaper from China, inventors of the fashion for wall lining 2,000 years ago and which was later taken on by the French. But it is below the stairs, in the servants' quarters, where there are equally impressive examples, even though these were considered "cheap" examples from the 19th and 20th Century.
The loud grunts of some tennis players can give them a real advantage over opponents, a scientific study says. Canadian and American researchers said tests had shown that "extraneous sound interfered with participants' performance, making their responses both slower and less accurate". Some top tennis stars, including Martina Navratilova, regard grunting as unfair, or even as cheating. Maria Sharapova and Rafael Nadal are among the game's big grunters. The study, which appeared in the Public Library of Science ONE journal, tested 33 students at the University of British Columbia in western Canada. Hundreds of video clips were shown of a player hitting a ball to either the left or right. The students had to determine the direction quickly, but on some shots were subjected to noises simulating grunting. Lead report author Scott Sinnett told the BBC: "The findings were unequivocal. Basically, when the video clips did have a grunt, the participants were not only slower to react but they had lower accuracy levels. So they were basically slower and could actually be wrong-footed, if you could extend that to a real-world tennis court." The report said the grunt could also hamper a receiver who was trying to judge the spin and speed of a ball from the sound made off the racket. Mr Sinnett said: "The study raises a number of interesting questions for tennis. For example, if Rafael Nadal is grunting and Roger Federer is not, is that fair?"
Seaweed is still thriving around the Isles of Scilly but there has also been an increase in alien species from the Pacific Ocean, a scientist says. Prof Juliet Brodie, from the Natural History Museum, has been surveying the islands, where there are about 30% of the 600 species native to UK waters. She said initial findings showed that seaweed flora appeared to be generally similar to the last study in 1983. But she added some alien species not found then were now well-established. The week-long survey was part of the Isles of Scilly Marine Biodiversity Project, which the Isles of Scilly Wildlife Trust has been running for two years. Prof Brodie - who also carried out the 1983 survey - worked with a team of volunteers, including members of the trust. She said the aim was to look at whether the seaweed flora was much the same as in 1983. The initial findings showed that, despite concerns about climate change and other environmental threats, at least as many species were still present. However, she added that species including wire weed and devil's tongue weed, both conspicuous and invasive alien species from the Pacific, were also well-established. The survey team also sampled and pressed hundreds of seaweed samples. The samples are to be used by the Natural History Museum to create DNA profiles, the trust said.
A 2,000-year-old Roman mosaic has been been protected from a water leak from a pipe that led to its discovery in 50 years ago. Staff at the Roman Palace and Gardens at Fishbourne called in engineers after they noticed that part of the mosaic had become waterlogged. A corroded pipe was found and the museum activated its disaster plan. In August 1960 workers trying to lay the same pipe uncovered the ruins at Fishbourne near Chichester. They found a Roman boundary wall and the remains of the palace with 20 floor mosaics followed. Richard Keates, of Portsmouth Water, said: "The company has always been rather proud of the part its predecessors played in the discovery of the palace although more recently we have recognised that a major supply main lies in very close proximity to such important artefacts. "We were very pleased with the level of co-operation that we received from the staff and volunteers at Fishbourne which enabled us to complete the repairs very quickly." Portsmouth Water said it wanted to move the pipe away from the artefacts in the new year. Museum director Christine Medlock said: "We are hoping that our swift action and the work of Portsmouth Water will mean that damage to the mosaics will have been kept to a minimum. "We were able to remain open with little disruption for visitors."
Parts of the famous Staffordshire Hoard will be exhibited at Tamworth Castle next year. There will be a temporary exhibition of the haul, in the Great Hall next summer, Tamworth Borough Council said. Key pieces of the hoard, the UK's largest find of Anglo-Saxon treasure, will also be shown in Lichfield and Stafford. A Mercian Trail is also being developed to allow the treasure to be permanently displayed at several places. These would include Tamworth, Birmingham, Stoke-on-Trent and Lichfield. Councillor Steve Claymore, from Tamworth Borough Council, said: "The news that the Staffordshire Hoard is coming to Tamworth is fantastic news. "Residents and visitors will be able to see the hoard in its rightful place - the ancient capital of Mercia. "The touring exhibition could lead to tens of thousands of people discovering the fascinating history of Tamworth and its surrounding area." The 3,500-piece haul was found in a Staffordshire field in July 2009. It is now jointly owned by the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery and the Potteries Museum after Â£3.3m was raised to keep it in the area. Cleaned and restored items of the hoard, including a pectoral cross which is one of the signature pieces of the collection, are currently on show at the Potteries Museum and Art Gallery in Hanley.
The One Laptop Per Child organisation has been given a $5.6m (Â£3.5m) grant to develop a tablet version of its educational computer. The cash comes from chip maker Marvell which became a supporter and sponsor of OLPC in early 2009. The OLPC organisation said the grant meant it had all the development cash it needed to produce its next machine. OLPC said it would show off the first development work on the new machine at the CES show in January 2011. The cash handed over by Marvell will fund development of a tablet version of the XO - the rugged computer designed to boost education in developing nations. The device is code-named XO-3 as it will be the third device the OLPC organisation has produced. It previously scrapped plans for the XO-2 which was to resemble an electronic book. Early prototypes of the XO-3 will likely be based on the Moby machine that Marvell already makes. The finished XO-3 should be ready in 2012. The OLPC organisation was created with the intention of making a laptop costing only $100 that would be bought in huge quantities by poorer nations keen to get children using computers. The final machine produced by OLPC in 2007 ended up costing about $199 and did not sell in the huge quantities the group wanted. To date about 1.4 million XO laptops have been distributed.
Indonesia's President, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, has called off a state visit to the Netherlands because of a threat that he could be arrested. A separatist group, the Republic of South Moluccas (RMS), has asked a court to order his detention in connection with alleged human rights violations. Mr Yudhoyono said that if he had gone ahead with the three-day visit, it might have led to a "misunderstanding". Indonesian authorities crushed the RMS after it declared independence in 1950. Indonesia flashpoints: The Moluccas It was revived following the fall of President Suharto in 1998, and is currently based in the Netherlands, Indonesia's former colonial power. From 1999 until 2002, ethnic violence in the Moluccas islands left an estimated 5,000 people dead and displaced 500,000 others. A spokeswoman for a court in The Hague confirmed that the RMS had asked for an injunction to have Mr Yudhoyono arrested on arrival. The group wanted him to face prosecution for the alleged human rights violations and the physical abuse of political prisoners, she added. Mr Yudhoyono was reportedly already onboard his plane at Jakarta's airport on Tuesday when he decided to cancel the state visit. "In recent days, a group has filed a request to the court to make an issue out of human rights in Indonesia and request the court to arrest me during the state visit to the Netherlands," he told reporters afterwards. "What I cannot accept is if the president of Indonesia makes a visit to the Netherlands, after an invitation from the Netherlands, the court decides to arrest the president of Indonesia." The BBC contacted the Dutch embassy in Jakarta about the president's plans but they had no comment.
The trial of four men accused of fixing 32 football matches in several European countries has begun in Germany. If found guilty they could be jailed for up to 10 years. Several other men are expected to be charged in what has been called the biggest fraud scandal ever in European football. In total, nearly 300 matches in 15 European countries are alleged to have been affected. The four men who appeared in court in the western city of Bochum have been in custody since November 2009, when German police made a total of 15 arrests. They are accused of having bribed referees and players to throw matches. Officers had been eavesdropping for several months on telephone conversations in which the suspects had allegedly been discussing the games they were going to fix and the money they would make by betting on the results. The 15 are accused of having profited to the tune of several million euros, sometimes with bets placed in Asia by agents based in London. More than 70 of the games under suspicion were played in Turkey. Germany and Switzerland also feature prominently among the 15 countries affected. Many of the suspect matches were played in the lower divisions, but it is believed that at least three were in the Champions League. One of the accused is a professional footballer. This is likely to be the first of several trials. Police say they have 250 suspects. There is no evidence that games in Germany's top league, the Bundesliga, are involved, to the relief of the German football authorities. But this trial will raise questions about the integrity of football in the lower leagues in a large number of European countries, the BBC's Tim Mansel reports.
A cocktail of amino acids - the building blocks of proteins - is the latest contender in the age-old search for the elixir of life. Scientists gave mice drinking water laced with three amino acids. They said the rodents lived significantly longer than other mice fed a normal diet. The research, reported in a scientific journal, has yet to be tried in people. The study leader said a large patient trial was needed to provide evidence to convince doctors. In experiments, middle-aged healthy male mice were given drinking water containing the amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine. Dr Enzo Nisoli, of the University of Milan, and colleagues, said it increased the average lifespan of the mice by 12% and boosted their fitness and co-ordination. They wrote in their paper, published in Cell Metabolism: "Our study offers a rationale for deeply exploring the role of amino acids in prevention and control of age-related disorders in humans." The amino acids - three of the 20 that make up proteins - have been shown to extend life span in yeast. However, the precise role of these amino acids in humans is unknown. They are used by bodybuilders to maintain muscle tissue and can be bought in health food stores and online.
A priest accused of sexually abusing boys met up with one of his alleged victims in a pub "as a surprise" while on a visit from America, a court heard. Richard John James Robinson, 73, denies 22 charges relating to offences against six boys aged under 16 between 1959 and 1983 at churches in the West Midlands. One of the alleged victim's sister said her brother made allegations about Mr Robinson after the pub meeting. She said Mr Robinson had been a regular visitor to their Walsall home. The alleged victim's brother-in-law told the court Mr Robinson had arrived back to the UK from America to visit his sick mother. The priest told the brother-in-law he would like to meet the alleged victim "as a surprise" and the brother-in-law took him to the pub where he was, the court heard. The brother-in-law said the alleged victim looked "taken aback" to see him and the two men had chatted for around 45 minutes. Earlier, the sister had told the court the alleged victim had called family members together within weeks of the meeting and made allegations about him. The former clergyman, who was known to parishioners as "Father Jim", worked in churches in Staffordshire, Birmingham and Coventry until the mid-1980s, when he moved to California. He was extradited from the US in August last year. The trial continues.
Dutch Queen Beatrix has asked the leader of the Liberal VVD party to form a cabinet backed by the party of anti-Islamist populist Geert Wilders. Mark Rutte will now head a centre-right coalition with the Christian Democrats (CDA). The minority cabinet will have support of Mr Wilders' Freedom Party (PVV), which will remain outside the government. The government says it plans to ban the full Islamic veil in the Netherlands. It also wants to cut the budget by 18bn euros ($24bn; Â£15bn) by 2015, imposes curbs on immigration and increase the number of police officers. The Liberals (VVD) and CDA hold 52 seats in the 150-member parliament and will have to rely on the PVV's 24 MPs to get legislation passed. The coalition deal has angered some CDA MPs who do not want to work with Mr Wilders. Earlier this week, he went on trial in Amsterdam on Monday on charges of inciting hatred with his film Fitna (Division). The film juxtaposes the Muslim holy book, the Koran, with the 9/11 attacks in which nearly 3,000 people in the US were killed in 2001. The Netherlands has been run by a caretaker government since February when a coalition led by the CDA's former leader, Jan Peter Balkenende, collapsed after a row over military involvement in Afghanistan. June's general election delivered a surge of support for the Freedom Party, which won the third biggest share of seats in parliament.
More than 100 people are now known to have died in flooding in the eastern Indonesian province of West Papua. Scores more are still missing in Teluk Wondama district after flash floods and landslides that were triggered when a river burst its banks. Hundreds of people have been injured and more than 5,000 are being housed in tents set up in emergency camps. The National Search and Rescue Agency and military have sent reinforcements to help deal with the disaster. The sudden flooding on Monday caught residents by surprise, officials said, contributing to the high death toll. The local airport has now reopened and roads have been largely cleared of debris, which is helping to speed up aid deliveries to the area, reports say. Navy warships had previously been used to carry tents, medical supplies and food to the disaster zone. Thousands of buildings, roads and bridges in five villages have been damaged or destroyed. The head of the the provincial relief agency, Dortheis Sawaki, said 104 bodies had been recovered, but many more people were missing and the death toll was expected to rise. "It's a tragedy. The smell of rotting corpses is everywhere. Power is down. There's no clean water," she was quoted by AP as saying. Many parts of the country had been badly hit by heavy rains, winds and high waves this year, meteorologists said.
Oscar-nominated drama The White Ribbon has been named the winner of this year's BBC Four World Cinema award. Directed by Austria's Michael Haneke, the film tells of mysterious events that befall a rural German village in the years preceding World War I. Jonathan Ross hosted the event, which saw veteran Italian director Bernardo Bertolucci receive a special award. Oscar-winning actress Tilda Swinton was among the audience at the BFI Southbank in London at Thursday's ceremony. Her film I Am Love was one of the five foreign language films shortlisted for this year's honour. The others nominated were Swedish vampire thriller Let the Right One In, French crime drama A Prophet and Israeli animation Waltz with Bashir. Haneke did not travel to London to receive his prize, which was accepted on his behalf by White Ribbon cast member Leonie Benesch. This year's winner was decided by a panel comprising director Sophie Fiennes, screenwriter Christopher Hampton, Bollywood star Aamir Kahn and novelist Bidisha. The ceremony will be broadcast on BBC Four on Saturday at 2100 BST. Speaking after the event, Hampton said he had been impressed by The White Ribbon's "precision" and sense of mystery. "The real sign for me was that the second time I saw it was more extraordinary than the first time," he told the BBC News website. Attending the ceremony in a wheelchair, the 70-year-old Bertolucci received a rousing reception as he collected his accolade. "I'm very grateful and honoured," said the director of Last Tango in Paris and The Last Emperor. "It is very important for me to collect this quite heavy award," he added, going on to praise the "state of the art ramp" that had enabled him to ascend the podium.
The former editor of Indonesian Playboy, Erwin Arnada, has been arrested on the island of Bali. Police had been looking for Mr Arnada, who ignored orders to surrender after being sentenced to two years in jail for indecency in August. He had first been tried in 2007 and cleared of all charges. Islamist groups forced Indonesian Playboy to close down after only a few issues in 2006. The Islamist Defenders Front (FPI), a hardline Muslim group in Indonesia, had said Mr Arnada was a "moral terrorist", and the group criticised the authorities for failing to track him down. South Jakarta chief prosecutor Mohammed Yusuf said Mr Arnada had ignored three orders to turn himself in. "We picked him up from Bali today to fly him to Jakarta", Mr Yusuf said on Saturday. Mr Arnada's acquittal in 2007 was seen as a victory of freedom of the press in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation where Islamist extremists launched violent protests when the magazine appeared in 2006. But the FPI and other Islamist groups lodged an appeal with the Supreme Court, which found him guilty of public indecency after publishing a handful of issues of Indonesian Playboy, which contained no nudity. "We are being forced to act by the FPI as a plaintiff in this case", Mr Yusuf said on Saturday. The Indonesian parliament passed a controversial anti-pornography law in 2008, which was backed by Islamist groups. But the law also prompted protests across Indonesia, particularly on the predominantly Hindu island of Bali - a favourite destination for tourists.
A giant pumpkin grown in Hampshire has broken the British record for weight. The monster squash weighed in at 1,504lb (682kg), about 200lb (90kg) short of the world record, and has a circumference of about 17ft (5.18m). Twins Ian and Stuart Paton, 49, who already held the British record, grew it at their nursery in Lymington in the New Forest, Hampshire. The official weighing took place at the Pumpkin festival in Netley, Hampshire, on Saturday. The twins had thought the vegetable was likely to be bigger than it actually turned out to be and had hoped to break the world record. The world's largest pumpkin was grown in 2009 by Nick and Christy Harpy from Ohio, USA, and weighed 1,725lb (782kg). By failing to beat the record, the twins missed out on a Â£10,000 prize, but as a consolation they pocketed Â£1,000 for the British record. Specialist lifting equipment had to be used to move the pumpkin to the Jubilee Sailing Trust Pumpkin Festival at the Royal Victoria Country Park. The brothers said their success was due to "50% genetics and 50% love and care". The pumpkin had grown about 35lb (15.9kg) per day in weight over six weeks, they said. The plant's foliage covered 600 sq ft (55.741 sq m). The twins first entered the British record books after they grew a pumpkin weighing a mammoth 1,457lb (660 kg) in 2009.
The Dutch Caribbean dependency the Netherlands Antilles has ceased to exist with a change of the five islands' constitutional status. Curacao and St Maarten have become autonomous countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, joining Aruba, which gained the status in 1986. Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba are now autonomous special municipalities of the kingdom. The Netherlands retains responsibility for defence and foreign policy. The Dutch government will also have initial oversight over Curacao's finances under a debt-relief arrangement. Collectively, the islands had amassed a debt of around 2bn euros (Â£1.75bn; $2.8bn), most of it owed to the Netherlands. The smaller islands of St Maarten, Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba said the debt was mostly run up by Curacao, the largest island and de facto capital of the former Netherlands Antilles. Curacao complained that it was carrying too much of the financial burden for the federation, especially for Saba, St Eustatius and Bonaire. Tourism, petroleum refining and offshore finance are the mainstays of the islands' economies. The Dutch colonised the islands, alongside Aruba, in the 17th Century. The territory, once called the Dutch West Indies, became the semi-autonomous Netherlands Antilles in 1954. The new status, which came into effect on Sunday, followed referendums over the past few years in which Curacao, St Maarten, Bonaire and Saba opted to leave the federation while St Eustatius supported the status quo. None of the islands voted for independence.
The sixth and last of the Royal Navy's new Type 45 Destroyers has been launched on the River Clyde in Glasgow. The 7,500 tonne warship, HMS Duncan, slipped into the water from BAE's shipyard at Govan. The vessel will provide air defence cover, be able to carry up to 60 Royal Marine Commandos and operate a variety of helicopters from its flight deck. It will enter service in 2014. The completed Type 45s are Daring, Diamond, Dauntless, Dragon and Defender. The vessel is named after Admiral Adam Duncan, who led the Royal Navy's victory over the Dutch fleet in 1797. It was built by BAE Systems with 2,800 tonnes of steel - more than used in Blackpool Tower. The ship is equipped with the Sea Viper missile system, designed to tackle multiple airborne or sea-based targets. Minister for Defence Equipment, Peter Luff, said: "The launch of HMS Duncan is the culmination of a huge effort by workers here on the Clyde, across the country throughout the supply chain, and in the MoD, completing this class of potent warfighters of which everyone involved can be very proud. "Following on from HMS Daring being declared in service and the successful first firing of the Sea Viper missile system, this is another significant milestone in the delivery of a truly world-class air defence capability to the Royal Navy." Commander-in-Chief Fleet Admiral Sir Trevor Soar added: "The Type 45 is world class. These ships are as versatile as they are powerful. "Providing flexible global reach they will deliver broad utility, common to maritime forces, and give the UK military, diplomatic and political options, with their ability to exert effect on land from the sea. "This ranges from deterrence and conflict prevention right up to high intensity war fighting and all points between."
Patients, staff and visitors at a north Wales hospital will enjoy free parking from this week. Parking charges at Glan Clwyd Hospital at Bodelwyddan have been scrapped after an external contract came to an end. It follows a Welsh Assembly Government pledge that users would be able to park free at almost every NHS hospital in Wales by the end of 2011. Hospitals where parking is run by private companies were forced to reduce costs until contracts expired. At Glan Clywd, the changes accompany a new parking system to make it easier for patients and visitors to park. Their parking will remain in the front of the hospital, close to the main public entrances, with additional parking available in the car park on the right hand side of the access road. Designated parking areas for the renal, cancer and maternity units will continue with no time limits or charges. Arrangements for accessible parking for the disabled will not be affected by the changes. New signs are being put up to direct the public to the designated parking areas. The remainder of parking spaces on the site will be available for staff. A spokesperson for the hospital said: "We appreciate that the new system will take time to fully develop and bed-in. "In the meantime our immediate priority is to ensure that disruption to patients and visitors is minimised while the new arrangements are being implemented."
Hollywood actor Morgan Freeman is to receive a lifetime achievement award from the American Film Institute (AFI). The 73-year-old Oscar winner will be presented with the award on 9 June. AFI chair Sir Howard Stringer called Freeman "an American treasure" who brought a calm authority to his roles, "whether playing a prisoner, a president or God." Freeman won an Oscar for his role in Million Dollar Baby in 2005. His next film is the thriller Red. He was also nominated for a best supporting actor Oscar for 1997's Street Smart, and has garnered three Academy nominations for best actor for Invictus, Driving Miss Daisy and The Shawshank Redemption. His other credits include Bruce Almighty and Nurse Betty. He will be the 39th recipient of the AFI Lifetime Achievement award. Others include Jack Nicholson, Steven Spielberg, Barbra Streisand, Elizabeth Taylor, Alfred Hitchcock and Martin Scorsese. Stringer said Freeman had an "unmistakable voice that echoes through the hearts and minds of movie lovers around the world". The AFI's Lifetime Achievement award is considered one of the highest honours in the US for a film actor. Freeman's ceremony will take place in Los Angeles - it will be broadcast on US TV towards the end of June.
A Royal Marine who was killed in southern Afghanistan on 1 July has been named by the Ministry of Defence as Cpl Seth Stephens. In a statement released by the MoD, a Royal Marines spokesman said the corporal was a devoted family man. He added: "Never one to follow the well trodden path, he was confident in his own abilities and was always looking for new challenges." Cpl Stephens's family had requested his identity not be released until now. The number of British military personnel killed on operations in Afghanistan since 2001 is 340. The spokesman said Cpl Stephens was a trusted friend and colleague. "He was blessed with the innate ability to brighten the darkest room; he also possessed a disarming sense of humour. "Measured and thoughtful, his strength came from a depth of experience and knowledge that he was keen to share with others." He added: "Above all else Seth was a doting husband and father. His absolute dedication and unfailing love for his family was abundantly clear for everybody to see. "He could always be relied upon to be there for his family and friends, whose needs he always placed before his own. Their loss is immeasurable and our condolences go to them. "If there is some solace to be gained, it lies in knowing that Seth died doing the job he genuinely loved, alongside comrades that had the utmost admiration for him." Defence Secretary Liam Fox also paid tribute to the marine and said: "It is clear that Cpl Seth Stephens was a consummate professional whose positive energy and sense of fun made him a popular and highly respected marine."
The Afghan girl featured on a controversial Time magazine cover in the US has been given a new prosthetic nose. Aisha told Time her nose and ears had been cut off - with the approval of a Taliban commander - by her abusive husband as punishment for running away. The front cover generated debate over the headline "What Happens if We Leave Afghanistan" and over the use of the photo itself. Her surgery was done in California. The Grossman Burn Foundation, which carried out the work, campaigns on the issue of violence against women, as well as doing free plastic surgery work. Foundation surgeon Peter Grossman carried out the reconstruction surgery. Aisha was widely photographed and filmed earlier this week receiving the Enduring Heart award at a benefit ceremony staged by the foundation. She was given the award by California first lady Maria Shriver, the wife of California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. "This is the first Enduring Heart award given to a woman whose heart endures and who shows us all what it means to have love and to be the enduring heart," Ms Shriver said. Aisha - whose surname has not been revealed - replied: "Thank you so much." The 18-year-old was reportedly given away by her family in childhood as a "blood debt" and was subsequently married to a Taliban fighter. His family abused her and she ran away but was recaptured and mutilated by her husband. Aisha's case has been used in the West to illustrate the fear of what will happen if US, British and other international forces leave prematurely. Some critics questioned the tone of the Time cover arguing that it was using emotional blackmail and gender politics to justify continued US involvement in Afghanistan.
Matt Willis says he and former Busted guitarist James Bourne have been writing new material and hope to have a new album out next year. The band split up in 2005 after Charlie Simpson decided to quit in favour of another band, Fightstar. Matt Willis says, so far, just he and James Bourne are back on board. "Music is always in the back of my head," he said. "It's always the thing that I want to be doing. There's a chance we'll be doing something soon." Matt is performing in the West End production of Flashdance at the moment. He says getting older and appearing in the London show have made his writing more mature. He said: "It's the two guys who wrote Busted songs. So it's going to be a little bit like Busted. "But we're both 27 now. We're not 17 writing about school teachers and the year 3000. Also we're not writing about really grown-up stuff either. "The way it's taken shape, it's funny. I don't know if Flashdance has influenced me, but its quite 80s, quite synth-based. But it's still got guitars. It's great. It's wicked. "Things are looking good. Fingers crossed, we should be making an album within the next six months hopefully. But we'll see."
The Progressive Unionist Party has elected a new leader. It is Brian Ervine, brother of the former PUP leader David Ervine who died more than three years ago. Meanwhile, two PUP members have announced they are leaving the party. They said they were going on good terms, but it was not the party they joined. Mr Ervine, a teacher, has said he wants to carry on his brother's legacy. The party's last leader, Dawn Purvis, left the PUP because of its ties with the UVF which was believed to be behind the murder of Bobby Moffett on the Shankill Road in June. Mr Ervine said the PUP must ensure there are no more murders like that of Mr Moffett. He encouraged "progressive elements" to help "clean up criminality on our streets" "One cannot profess to be a good loyalist or unionist and be a drug dealer or a parasite on their own community," he added. Mr Ervine has defended his decision to support the retention of links with the UVF. "I believe that the channels should still be opened and in the great scheme of things over the past 10 years there hasn't been a complete cessation, but it has eased tremendously," he said. "That's due to progressive men in those organisations and the restraining influence of the PUP." Dr John Kyle had been standing in as interim leader since Dawn Purvis' resignation.
Rescuers have found the bodies of two of four miners trapped underground in a gold mine in southern Ecuador. Rescuers were continuing to clear fallen rock to get to the area where the two missing miners were thought to have been working, officials said. They were trapped 150m (490 feet) underground by a cave-in on Friday. Chilean President Sebastian Pinera has offered his help, three days after the dramatic rescue of 33 miners in Chile. Deputy Mining Minister Jorge Espinosa said the searchers had hopes of finding the two missing men alive. "We hope to find the two other miners alive because they were in a spot that probably was not affected" by the cave-in, he told Associated Press news agency. Mr Espinosa identified the two workers who had been confirmed dead as Walter Vera and Paul Aguirre. He said the two missing men were Pedro Mendoza and Angel Vera, Walter's brother. President Rafael Correa promised to do "everything possible" to save them. "God willing, we will find them alive." The collapse at the Casa Negro gold, silver and copper mine, near the town of Portovelo, is thought to have been caused by a water leak which eroded structural supports.
A new guide has been launched to help tourism companies capitalise on an expected sharp rise in the adventure holiday market in Scotland. The Adventure Travel in Scotland guide has been published by Tourism Intelligence Scotland (TIS). It is aimed at helping companies make the most of new and emerging opportunities in the tourism sector. Tourism bosses expect a 70% increase in people taking part in adventure travel over the next three years. According to the guide, more than 3.2 million adventure holiday trips were made in Scotland in 2008, generating almost Â£900m of spending. Adventure travel includes adventure sports and mountain biking, but also walking and wildlife watching. The guide provides facts and figures about the market, emerging consumer trends and marketing tips to help operators attract more adventure travellers to their business. Julie Franchetti, tourism innovation manager at Scottish Enterprise, said: "In the current economic climate, tourism businesses need to continue to look at new ways to innovate and grow their business. "This guide will give them the knowledge and the tools to make the most of these new opportunities and ensure they meet, and exceed, the needs of these adventurous travellers." Paul Easto, director of adventure travel company Wilderness Scotland, said good market intelligence was essential to any business. He added: "For Scotland to thrive as an adventure travel destination, it is fundamentally important that all aspects of the tourism supply chain understand the specific needs and expectations of this market." TIS is a joint venture developed by Scottish Enterprise, Highlands & Islands Enterprise and VisitScotland, in partnership with the tourism industry.
The founder of the Wikileaks website, Julian Assange, has been denied residency in Sweden, the country's migration board officials say. They declined to give the reason, saying it was confidential. Mr Assange, an Australian national, had hoped to create a base for Wikileaks in the Nordic country due to its laws protecting whistle-blowers. The rejection comes ahead of the expected publication of some 400,000 Iraq war documents on Wikileaks. The US military has already assembled a 120-member team to prepare for the publication of the documents which are thought to concern battle activity, Iraqi security forces and civilian casualties. Wikileaks' release in July of thousands of documents on the war in Afghanistan prompted US military officials to warn that the whistleblower website might cause the deaths of US soldiers and Afghan civilians because some of the documents contained the names of locals who had helped coalition forces. "We have decided not to grant him (Mr Assange) a residence permit," Sweden's Migration Board official Gunilla Wikstroem told the AFP news agency. "He did not fulfil the requirements," she added without giving any further details. Mr Assange applied for a residence permit on 18 August. He is currently being investigated in Sweden over an alleged sex crime. Mr Assange denies any wrongdoing and says the allegations are part of a smear campaign by opponents of his whistle-blowing website.
The chancellor has given a firm commitment in his Spending Review to support the Midland Metro extension from Wolverhampton to Birmingham. It currently terminates at Birmingham Snow Hill but will be extended to Birmingham New Street station. A commitment was also made to support the complete redevelopment of the station. George Osborne said including these projects, he would invest more than Â£30bn in transport by 2012. He told the House of Commons: "In the West Midlands, we will extend the Midland Metro and completely redevelop Birmingham New Street station." There had been concerns that resources for the New Street redevelopment could be cut back. The metro expansion project has been 15 years in the planning. It will extend along Bull Street and Corporation Street and end outside New Street Station. Transport Secretary Philip Hammond welcomed the news. "It's very good news for the city, for economic growth in the region and good news for regeneration within Birmingham." A special BBC News season examining the approaching cuts to public sector spending The Spending Review: Making It Clear Councillor Angus Adams from the West Midlands Passenger Transport Authority said he was surprised by the confirmation. "I had been very very hopeful that this was going to come because we've been working on it for an awful long time," he said. "But now this is culmination of a lot of hard work by a lot of people for a long time." Meanwhile, some union members held a silent protest in the city centre angry at the impact the cuts could have on jobs in the region. Roger McKenzie from Unison said: "We're already facing really hard times here. "Anything you take out of the public sector in the West Midlands is going to have a devastating impact."
John Barrowman and the cast of the hit musical We Will Rock You have confirmed they will join Pudsey for Children in Need Scotland next month. The Torchwood star will join Jackie Bird as presenter of this year's show at Glasgow's SECC on 19 November. Last year Â£39m was raised to help improve the lives of disadvantaged children. Anyone who would like to be in the audience can register now for free tickets at bbc.co.uk/tickets. Other acts confirmed for the evening are dance group Punjabi No 1 and The Box, music acts Pearl and the Puppets, Clanadonia and The Gospel Truth Choir as well as comedians Fred MacAulay, Craig Hill and Des Clarke. Further performers are due to be announced in the coming weeks. Northern Ireland and Wales are also staging their own concerts, with highlights of all regions shown to the whole of the UK during the national TV appeal. John Barrowman said: "Working on Children in Need is always a highlight of my year. "The cause is such a worthy one, and unfortunately right now the number of children in need in the UK is growing. "I'm really looking forward to doing what I can to raise spirits and lots of cash." BBC Radio Scotland will also have full coverage of the event, culminating in a special programme hosted by Bryan Burnett and Radio One's Edith Bowman.
A man thought to be the first to drive using a mind-controlled robotic arm has died in an Austrian hospital after a serious car crash. It is not known whether his bionic arm had any role in causing the accident. Christian Kandlbauer, 22, was found in the wreckage of his specially-adapted Subaru on Tuesday. Late on Thursday he was pronounced brain-dead in intensive care at the Graz hospital and his life support was switched off. Mr Kandlbauer lost both of his arms four years ago, after being shocked by 20,000 volts. He was fitted with a mind-controlled robotic arm by the medical technology company Otto Bock Healthcare, which said it was the first project of its kind in Europe. Using both his left and right arm - which was a normal prosthetic limb - he was able to pass his driving test in a specially converted car. On Tuesday he was found by a lorry driver who came across his burning car on a road near Bad Waltersdorf in south-east Austria. The driver managed to put out the flames, but it needed firefighters to extract Mr Kandlbauer from the mangled wreckage. He had been interviewed by the BBC about his revolutionary limb earlier this year. "I feel very happy," he said at the time. "It is like my earlier arm - I feel that my arm is a part of my body." He had returned to work as a warehouse clerk at the garage that once employed him as a mechanic. He said he was grateful that he had the freedom to get on with his life.
A burst pipe which caused a major sewage leak at Conwy has been repaired, says Environment Agency Wales. There was concern the discharge could get into the Clwyd Estuary and affect nearby beaches. But the agency said emergency work by DÅµr Cymru Welsh Water through the night had been successful. It is believed 70,000 litres of sewage was removed. Damage to a football pitch is being examined to see what can be done to bring it back into use. The agency said in a statement: "Environment Agency Wales officers can now confirm that due to the response by DÅµr Cymru Welsh Water, the Clwyd Estuary has been protected from any discharge of sewage. "Emergency work by the company to repair the sewer pipe has been successful with operators working through the night. "This work has been successful and the main is now operating as normal. "The company stored large amounts of sewage at a holding site while the repairs took place." Bill Darwin, from Kinmel Bay and Towyn Community Association, which looks after the pitch, said he understood the football field would not be usable for some weeks. "It was a major spillage," he said. "It was like a lake - you couldn't see half the pitch." The pitch is used by a number of local teams including Sunday league pub team May Quay, who were  due to play at home this weekend, and Towyn Juniors FC. "We're gutted," said a May Quay team spokesman.
The opposition Social Democrats have won control of the Czech senate in mid-term elections, allowing them to slow government plans to cut spending. Voters were choosing 27 of the 81-seat chamber and the left-wing Social Democrats now have 41 seats. The gains could allow them to block the ruling right-wing Civic Democrats' plan to send more troops to Afghanistan. The Social Democrats' leader said their goal was to make the government's reforms "socially more tolerable". The Civic Democrats formed a coalition government after May's parliamentary elections and now proposes to cut government spending to reduce the country's budget deficit. The plans, including a 10% cut in the wages of public sector workers, provoked a large protest in Prague last month. "We are ready to discuss future reforms with the cabinet," said the Social Democrats' acting chairman Bohuslav Sobotka. "The goal is to make them fair, balanced, socially more tolerable," he said. Prime Minister Petr Necas said the election result would slow legislation but he was willing to work with the Social Democrats. Bills passed by the lower house of parliament are sent to the senate for approval before being signed into law by the president. If the senate rejects a bill, it returns to the Civic Democrat-dominated lower house before going straight to the president, bypassing the senate.
The UN refugee agency is to start an emergency airlift of tents to the West African nation of Benin this week, amid the worst flooding there in decades. Some 3,000 tents will be flown in from Denmark to provide shelter for some of the estimated 680,000 people affected. Two-thirds of Benin has suffered from months of heavy rain, and about 800 cases of cholera have been reported. It is the worst flooding to hit the country - one of the poorest in the world - since 1963. Areas previously thought not to be vulnerable to flooding have been devastated and villages wiped out. "There are huge areas that are covered in water so people are living on the tops of their houses, because people try to stay near their homes," Helen Kawkins of the Care aid agency told the BBC. The flooding has sparked major health concerns, with drinking and bathing water contaminated by human waste which has overflowed from latrines. Are you affected by Benin's floods? The number of cases of cholera are rising daily, with more than 50 reported in the largest city, Cotonou, alone, Care says. Dozens of people have died as a result of the flooding in the past few weeks, officials say. People who have lost their homes have sought shelter in medical facilities, putting pressure on the country's health system. The UN's Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (Ocha) says an appeal for funds and aid is being planned. The rain is continuing to deluge Benin and forecasters say there is no sign yet of it abating.
US companies that received government assistance during the financial crisis have given big political contributions to Republicans, according to reports. Many Republicans did not support the "bailout" legislation and aggressively attacked the Democrats over it. The Washington Post reports that 23 firms that received over $1bn (Â£634m) in government funds have made political contributions, mostly to Republicans. The companies include car-maker General Motors and Citigroup. "We contribute to candidates who thoughtfully approach issues that are important to the auto industry and manufacturing," GM spokesman Greg Martin told The Washington Post. "If you look at our giving, we have given equally to both parties' leadership." The initial piece of emergency bailout legislation, which became the $700bn Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), was formulated by the Bush administration and Democratic congressional leadership in late 2008. After extensive negotiation it passed both Houses of Congress, but more than 100 Republicans in the House voted against it. The second bailout, or stimulus package, an initiative of the Obama administration and senior congressional Democrats, has become a liability for many vulnerable Democrats heading into next week's mid-term elections. President Barack Obama's bailout of the auto industry has also proven unpopular. Republicans argue that the stimulus wasted taxpayers' money and did not boost the economy as promised. Many companies that received government money, including General Motors, Citigroup and JP Morgan Chase, were struggling to stay afloat before receiving government assistance. But many, particularly in the banking and financial sector, soured on the Obama administration after Democrats passed strict new financial regulations earlier this year.
Oscar-winning director Oliver Stone says he loves Indian cinema for "being able to switch between comedy, romance and tragedy at the same time". Stone said he would make a movie in India "if there was a great story". He said Indian cinema was "very prolific and vital" and that he had used that vitality in his 1994 film Natural Born Killers. The movie is about two young lovers who commit numerous robberies and murders during a wild three-week spree. Stone is in the western Indian city of Mumbai (Bombay) to receive a lifetime achievement award at a prominent film festival. "Indian cinema is very prolific. I can't keep up. I used that vitality in Natural Born Killers. I love that the films switch from comedy to romance and then to tragedy. I love that," Stone told reporters. He said he had studied Indian filmmaker Satyajit Ray's works in school. Asked if he would make a movie in India, Stone said: "If there was a great story. If I had Danny Boyle's luck, I'd make Slumdog Millionaire. There was a good detective story [based in India] written two years ago but..." Stone shot parts of his film Alexander in the Ladakh region which he described as "beautiful". Stone said his 10-part documentary mini-series, The Untold History of America, will air sometime next year.
A former Woolworths store which reopened as Wellworths has been forced to change its name. Shop Direct, which bought the Woolworths brand out of administration, said it had secured a legal settlement with the store in Dorchester, Dorset. Wellworths will rebrand itself as Wellchester after failing to agree terms that would have let it keep the name but restrict its expansion. Shop Direct said protecting its brand was of "paramount importance". Wellworths, launched by former Woolworths manager Claire Robertson in March 2009, has been given two years to change its branding. First-year profit The branch was one of 815 that closed after Woolworths went bust in November 2008 with debts of Â£385m. But Ms Robertson reopened the store, gave about 20 colleagues their jobs back and saw the business make a profit in its first year. Wellworths said Shop Direct "initially supported the opening of the former Woolworths store in Dorchester as Wellworths, but then sought an agreement which would place limits on the growth of the business under the Wellworths name". "Regretfully, rather than accept those limits, Wellworths have decided to replace the Wellworths name with Wellchester over the course of the next two years." Ms Robertson said she was aiming to expand the brand across south and south-west England, in towns similar to Dorchester. She announced her intentions in March, although other sites have yet to be found. "We're really happy with the way things are going and have been extremely well supported by our customers in the first year-and-a-half," she added. Mark Newton-Jones, chief executive of home shopping firm Shop Direct, said: "Protecting your brand is of paramount importance to every business and no less so to us with our Woolworths brand."
Yorkshire should be given its own "White Rose Parliament" with its own budget, MP David Blunkett has said. Mr Blunkett said using the same funding formula applied to Wales - which has a devolved budget - Yorkshire would be entitled to a Â£24bn budget. "You put great store by devolving decision-making to ordinary people," he told Prime Minister David Cameron. Mr Cameron said the government had already got rid of a "centralised" approach that Mr Blunkett was part of. Mr Blunkett, a Labour former Cabinet minister and the MP for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough, made the suggestion during prime minister's questions in the House of Commons. He said: "Can you think of one single reason why the people of Yorkshire shouldn't determine their own priorities? "And, mischievously, one reason why the people of Yorkshire shouldn't have their own White Rose Parliament?" Mr Cameron said: "What we are doing is we are saying to councils in Yorkshire, as up and down the country, 'We are getting rid of the ring fences, we are giving you the power to spend your money in the way that you choose'." He added: "We have got rid of the bossy, centralised interfering approach that I'm afraid you were rather part of."
A man has been jailed for carrying out a "despicable" rape on a 14-year-old girl at a party in Fife. Kevin Swindells, 39, carried out the attack after buying alcohol for a number of young teenagers. He was jailed for seven-and-a-half years after admitting raping the girl at a house in Cupar in May last year. At the High Court in Edinburgh judge Kenneth Maciver said: "The rape of this 14-year old girl was, in any view, despicable." He added: "You took violent advantage of her condition and forced yourself on her while she was unable to resist". Advocate Depute Alison Di Rollo said the victim and her family had found the incident very stressful and difficult to cope with. Swindells pled guilty to raping the girl on the day his trial was due to begin, after the jury had been selected. The court heard Swindells had 61 previous convictions, including a 15-month sentence for assault, but no convictions for any sexual offence. Defence advocate Matt Jackson said Swindells claimed he had been drunk and could not remember anything, but he accepted full responsibility for what happened that night. Judge Maciver told Swindells the only favourable or mitigating factor was his decision - albeit at a very late stage - to plead guilty and save the victim and others from having to give evidence. The judge said he had "betrayed the trust of the children". He said: "You knew she and other friends were staying the night in your house. You knew they had been drinking. "They were entitled to feel they would be safe in your house. They were not safe. She was not safe".
An Israeli court has convicted a leading Israeli Arab activist of spying for Lebanon's Hezbollah militant group. Amir Makhoul, 52, admitted to the charges in a plea bargain that will see him jailed for seven to 10 years. Under the deal, prosecutors dropped the most serious charge - assisting an enemy in a time of war - for which he could have faced life in prison. He will be sentenced in November. Makhoul was arrested in May, along with Israeli Arab activist Omar Sayid. Charges against Mr Sayid were reduced in a plea bargain and he was freed last month after serving a seven-month jail term. The Israeli press was initially barred from reporting on the case, but when the gag order was lifted, Israeli Arab pressure group Adalah said their arrest and interrogation had been conducted "in gross violation of their fundamental rights to due process". Makhoul's lawyer, Hussein Abu Hussein, said he agreed to a plea bargain because of the difficulty of proving his innocence. He said the information that Makhoul shared was common knowledge and available on the internet. In May, Makhoul and Sayid confessed that they passed information about Israeli bases to the Lebanese militant and political group, Hezbollah, which is blacklisted by Israel as a terrorist organisation. Prosecutors said they sent information to their Lebanese contacts over the internet using sophisticated encryption programmes. In 2006, Israel and Hezbollah fought a devastating war that killed more than 1,200 people in Lebanon, most of them civilians, and more than 160 Israelis, mostly soldiers. Makhoul is the director of Ittijah, the Union of Arab Community-Based Associations, the brother of a former Israeli-Arab member of Israel's Knesset, or parliament, and an outspoken critic of Israel's treatment of Palestinians and Israeli Arabs.
Nintendo has reported a half-year loss after being hit by falling sales and the high value of the yen, which lowers its overseas earnings. The Japanese computer games firm posted a net loss of 2bn yen ($24.7m; Â£15.6m) for the six months to 30 September. This compares with a net profit of 69.5bn yen for the same period in 2009. Nintendo's sales for the first half of its financial year were down 34% to 363.16bn yen, partly due to lower demand for its Wii console. The company did not release a net profit figure for its second quarter to 30 September, however its operating profit more than halved to 30.9bn yen. Nintendo is forecasting that its annual profit will drop to the lowest level in six years, as sales of the Wii console decline for the second year in succession. The firm has also been forced to delay the launch of the new 3D version of its DS hand-held console in the US until March, meaning it will miss out on key Christmas sales. Nintendo's weak results were in line with market expectations, as it had already warned at the end of last month that profits would be lower. The release of its latest figures came after the close of Thursday trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Nintendo shares had closed down 0.7%.
The rights group Amnesty International has criticised Nigeria's government over mass evictions in the oil-rich Niger Delta. Plans for urban development and slum demolition have been a violently contested issue in Port Harcourt. Amnesty is warning that continued development may leave as many as 200,000 people homeless. Sprawling and chaotic, the city of Port Harcourt is Nigeria's oil capital in the Niger Delta. Africa Have Your Say Its shanty towns and slums are home to tens of thousands of people all scraping a living in a city pumping billions of dollars worth of oil. In 2009, the Rivers State government began plans to rebuild parts of the city. They are demolishing slums on the waterfront as part of the "Greater Port Harcourt master plan". Forced evictions regularly spark demonstrations there and police have even fired live rounds at protesters. Several civilians have been killed. The local government hopes to develop the area to create jobs, stimulate the local economy and build better roads - all of it urgently needed. They hope to build an eight-screen cinema, a shopping mall and hotels. They are following a buy-out scheme, paying those who own the properties to move. But most of the residents on the waterfront are poor tenants who get no compensation and have nowhere to go. Many of them now sleep outdoors under bridges and in the streets. Amnesty is now warning that as many as 200,000 people could end up homeless if alternative housing is not found for them. "These planned demolitions are likely to plunge hundreds of thousands of Nigeria's most vulnerable citizens further into poverty," said the group's Africa deputy programme director, Tawanda Hondora. "The government should halt the waterfront evictions until they ensure they comply with international human rights standards."
China has said it will not use exports of so-called rare earth minerals as a diplomatic bargaining tool. The country produces more than 90% of these valuable commodities, which are used to produce electronic items such as mobile phones. A row has blown up surrounding their availability, with relations between China and Japan at its centre. The US and the EU asked Beijing to clarify its policy on mineral exports after China stopped shipping to Japan. The stoppage followed a spat between China and Japan last month over islands whose ownership is disputed. A spokesman for China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Zhu Hongren, said: "China will not use rare earths as a bargaining tool. We will have cooperation with other countries in the use of rare earths, because it is a non-renewable energy resource." But Mr Zhu did not answer a reporter's question about when normal exports of rare earth minerals would resume. China has about 30% of rare earth mineral deposits, but accounts for about 97% of production. Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has called on China to clarify its policy on rare earth resources. She said recent Chinese restrictions served as a "wake-up call" for the industrialised world which should drive it to look for other suppliers. Rare earth metals are scarce minerals that have particular properties, such as being magnetic or shining in low light. This makes them particularly useful in some new technologies, such as solar panels or electric cars or light-weight batteries. Japanese companies say Beijing has blocked rare earth shipments to Japan since 21 September after a Chinese fishing boat captain was detained near disputed islands.
The owner of the online encyclopaedia, Wikipedia, plans to open an office in India. The Wikimedia Foundation co-founder, Jimmy Wales, said it would be the first office outside the United States. He told the Indian website, CIOL, that no location had been chosen yet, but the office would open within several months. Mr Wales said the operation would initially consist of two to four people and serve the local community. "For Wikimedia, going multilingual and sharing content for all the languages is the way forward," he said. Europe and Africa had been considered as possible locations. But Europe was already highly developed and there were concerns about the technical capabilities in Africa, he said. "India was in the middle of the two extremes," said Mr Wales. "It is a growth region and I also like the enthusiasm in the country." Wikipedia has more than 91,000 active contributors working in more than 270 languages, according to the Wikipedia website. Barry Newstead, the chief global development officer, said  there was "a general commitment to free knowledge in India". "We hope to support Indians to realise the vision of a world in which every single person can freely share in the sum of all knowledge," he said in e-mailed comments. Since its creation in 2001, the free-to-access website has grown rapidly. It attracts nearly 78 millions visitors a month, according to its own figures.
A lifesize bronze sculpture of Donald Campbell is to be unveiled close to the place in Cumbria where he died trying to break the world speed record. It will welcome visitors to a new wing of the Ruskin Museum at Coniston, which is dedicated to Campbell and the Bluebird craft he died in. Artist Graham Bell is donating the sculpture, which will be unveiled by Mr Campbell's daughter Gina in November. Mr Campbell died when Bluebird crashed on Coniston Water in 1967. A spokesman for the Ruskin Museum said: "Graham Ball approached the museum in 2008, as a life-long admirer of Donald Campbell, to ask whether the museum would like to accept the gift of a life-size statue of his hero. "The offer was made with no obligation, though he asked for our help in sourcing suitable photos and other images to inform his work. "One of the problems lay in finding images illustrating Campbell's left and right profiles, as most shots tended to be full or three-quarter face. "Decisions had to be made about stance, expression, clothing and what, if anything, the figure should hold. "The resultant sculpture, in bronze-patinated resin, will welcome visitors into The Bluebird Wing, the new extension where Bluebird K7 is to be displayed once the conservation rebuild has been completed." Bluebird was recovered from the lake in 2001 and is currently being restored.
Tube passengers had to walk through tunnels in the early hours after a Halloween hat was thrown on to the track, London Underground (LU) said. A passenger apparently threw a witch's hat containing metal on to the line at Chalk Farm, in north London, causing a power failure which stopped four trains. Hundreds of passengers were stuck on the trains for more than an hour before they were walked along tunnels to the nearest stations. LU has apologised to passengers. "We apologise to passengers who were inconvenienced as a result of this incident, and would urge customers to exercise care and not to discard items on the railway," a LU spokesman said. The four trains - three northbound between Camden and Belsize Park, and one northbound between Camden and Kentish Town - were stalled at 0040 BST. "The metal part of a hat thrown on to the rails at Chalk Farm caused power interruption," LU said. There were about 70 to 90 passengers on each train trapped for between an hour and an hour-and-a-half. The London Ambulance Service were called out but no passengers required medical attention. A number of Tube trains have broken down in recent weeks leading to passengers being walked though tunnels.
Liverpool City Council has appointed a new chief executive, following an outcry over the position's salary. Ged Fitzgerald, 49, currently chief executive of Lancashire County Council, is due to take up the post in February. Communities and Local Government Secretary Eric Pickles criticised the authority in August when it advertised the role with a Â£197,500 salary - Â£55,000 more than the prime minister. Council leader Joe Anderson said Mr Fitzgerald would run an efficient city. Mr Fitzgerald worked for the city council as head of economic development and European affairs and then as director of City Challenge from 1996 to 1998. The father-of-one became chief executive of Rotherham council in 2001, before taking up the same role at Sunderland City Council in 2004. 'Breathtaking transformation' He said: "I'm delighted to be offered the post of chief executive of one of the most exciting and dynamic cities in the world. "Liverpool's transformation over the past decade has been nothing short of breathtaking and Liverpool has shown every other major city that it is possible to shake off years of decline and stagnation and to reinvent yourself as a modern, enterprising and vibrant place. "Despite the tough economic times, it's vital we continue to change and improve." He said he would be working with staff to ensure resources were directed at front-line services and support those who need "the lifeline of our services most". He also said he wanted to build stronger links with business and enterprise to attract investment and new jobs which are "so vital to our future prosperity". Mr Anderson said: "Appointing Ged Fitzgerald is a real coup for Liverpool. "He brings a depth of experience and expertise at a time when the city needs it most." The council must formally approve the appointment on 10 November.
High street chain Selfridges has offered £10,000 to the family of Frank Sidebottom's creator after it appeared to use his head in a window display. Mannequins with faces very similar to that of the over-sized papier-mache creation formed part of their marketing campaign at their London store. Chris Sievey, the man behind the cult figure from Timperley, Greater Manchester, lost his battle with throat cancer in June, aged 54. The store has "sincerely" apologised. Mr Sievey's partner Gemma Wood said she had received many phone calls since a national newspaper published photographs of Selfridges' display. "People were very upset," she said. But she added: "I spoke to the store on the phone and they said they were very sorry and are going to credit Chris." Fans hope to build a permanent memorial to Sidebottom in Timperley, the suburb he immortalised. James Malach, who still runs the star's Radio Timperley website, said:  "On the one hand they should have asked permission from the family, which I'm sure they would have given, but on the other hand this is the kind of fuss which Chris/Frank would have loved." A Selfridges spokesman added: "After investigation we can see why some fans of Chris Sievey's character as well as some of the creator's friends and family have reacted so quickly to this feature of our current windows. "We sincerely apologise if this has offended anyone and we have been keen to resolve matters quickly. "We have offered to give £10,000 to Chris Sievey's estate and for them to decide how to best use this donation. "We will also ensure that a suitable acknowledgement is made to Mr Sievey's work in our window displays and in-store."
A painting of a nude by Amedeo Modigliani has sold for more than $68.9m (£42.7m) at an auction in New York - a record for the artist's work. Sotheby's said five bidders competed for La Belle Romaine, pushing its price well past its $40m (£24.8m) estimate. The painting, part of a series of nudes created around 1917, was purchased by an anonymous buyer. Modigliani's previous auction record was 43.2m euros (£35.8m), set earlier this year in Paris. "We are delighted with the results of our sale," said Sotheby's Simon Shaw. "It was a great night for Modigliani... that price represents over four times the price realised when it was sold at Sotheby's in 1999," he added. Another painting by the artist - Jeanne Hebuterne (au chapeau) - one of the first portraits he painted of his lover, sold for $19.1m (£11.8m), high above its estimate of $9-12m (£5.6-7.4m). The artist, who lived from 1884 to 1920, originally focused on sculpture but switched to painting in part because of health problems. Other top-priced works at the Impressionist and Modern Art sale included a canvas from Monet's famous water lily paintings, which fetched $24.7m (£15.3m) and Matisse's Danseuse dans le fauteuil, sol en damier, which sold for $20.8m (£12.9m).
Two of Northern Ireland's politicians are spitting nails after a trip to visit troops in Afghanistan was called off because they were too portly for Army flak jackets. Lord Ken Maginnis and David Simpson, DUP, had been due to fly out this week to meet soldiers from the Royal Irish and the Irish Guards but the Army couldn't find flak jackets large enough to fit them. "To be told at the last minute that the British Army has not got two flak jackets with a 54" chest was just a bit thick," said Lord Maginnis who weighs in at about 18 stone. "I wanted to go out and meet the troops and made considerable efforts to clear my diary. "So this made me very cross. I am no giant, neither is Davy Simpson. We are both reasonably normal, although we are bigger than most." Lord Maginnis said the cancelled trip made him "absolutely furious". "The reality is that we have young men and women out there fighting for us. They are putting their lives on the line. They deserve a little bit of consideration," he said. Lord Maginnis said he had made the trip two years ago - and he has got lighter since then. However, in a statement, the Ministry of Defence said: "Nobody is allowed to board an aircraft to Afghanistan without correctly fitting body armour. "The MoD provides a wide range of sizes but regrettably none was suitable on this occasion. "We recognise the importance of politicians visiting Afghanistan but this trip has been postponed while we try to source sufficiently sized body armour."
Zimbabwean police have arrested six directors of two diamond mining corporations on suspicion of fraudulently obtaining a licence. The officials work for the Zimbabwe Mining Development Corporation and Canadile Miners, state media reported. They are suspected of fraudulently obtaining a licence to mine the controversial Marange fields, in the east of the country. Marange is mired in controversy over legal issues and abuse by the military. The Kimberley Process, a global certification scheme meant to prevent trade in "blood diamonds", has limited sales from Marange after its investigation found soldiers had beaten villagers to force them to mine the gems. The group is due to meet to review Zimbabwe's efforts to curb abuses by government soldiers. The state-run Herald newspaper said those arrested included Dominic Mubaiwa, chief executive of the ZMDC, and Lovemore Kurotwi, the local head of Canadile Miners - a joint Zimbabwean-South African venture. The report said they faced charges of misrepresenting that the joint venture firm was able to fund mining operations in Marange. "Blood diamonds" are rough diamonds used by rebel groups or their allies to finance wars and conflicts. The Kimberley Process was set up in 2002 after the diamond trade was accused of fuelling several conflicts in Africa.
Coffee giant Starbucks has reported a sharp rise in profits thanks to strong sales which comfortably beat analysts' expectations. Net profit for the three months to the beginning of October came in at $278.9m (Â£171.4m), an 86% jump on the $150m the company made a year earlier. Revenue for the period was $2.84bn, up from $2.42bn. As a result of the strong performance, Starbucks raised its profits forecast for next year. Net profit for the year to the beginning of October more than doubled, from $390.8m to $945.6m. "I am delighted with the record fourth quarter and full-year results we announced today," said Starbucks boss Howard Schultz. "These results are particularly gratifying in light of the formidable economic challenges that our customers and we continue to confront in virtually every country and every market in which we operate." Revenues rose in large part due to an 8% rise in like-for-like sales, which strip out the impact of sales from new stores. The results pushed the firm's shares higher in after-hours trading. Starbucks has been focusing on winning back business in the US and focusing on core markets, while closing underperforming stores, since Mr Schultz returned to the top job in January 2008.
A serial rapist from Bedfordshire who attacked two women just months after being released from prison has been jailed for life. Cyril Donovan Brown, 44, of Lyndhurst Road, Luton, was told by Judge Barbara Mensah at Luton Crown Court that he was a "dangerous predator". Brown raped two women in Luton in August months after finishing a six-year sentence for another rape. Judge Mensah said he would serve a minimum of 24 years in prison. Prosecutor Isabel Delamere said Brown was violent towards women who he formed controlling relationships with. He raped them when they did not want to have sex with him, she said. He also had a previous conviction for assaulting another woman who refused to have sex with him. Brown, who claimed he was having affairs with 15 women at the same time, was convicted of eight rapes and three assaults. Judge Mensah said she was passing a life sentence to ensure he would be on licence for the rest of his life. "You are obsessed with sex and delusional about your relationships with women," she added. She said the earliest he would be able to apply for parole would be after serving 12 years of his sentence.
A police officer accused of raping and sexually abusing vulnerable women has claimed he was a victim of rumours. Northumbria Pc Stephen Mitchell, 43, of Glasgow, denies five counts of rape, six of indecent assault and 15 of misconduct in public office. He told a court his accusers shared details of their allegations against him with each other. The prosecution claims he promised "favours" for women in custody  - and then demanded sexual favours in return. One of the 16 complainants claimed Mitchell's three-and-a-half year hold over her only ended when she fled after he handcuffed and raped her at her flat. Mr Mitchell told Newcastle Crown Court the claimant came forward to police as a means of "self-preservation", the nature of which he could not divulge in open court. He added: "From that moment onwards I suggest there has been a whole host of rumours going around which have been spread by (that complainant). "She's telling certain people for a particular reason, and it's a very small-knit community in Newcastle city centre's criminal fraternity. "I think it has been demonstrated that people have been talking about this on a number of occasions." Mr Mitchell said that explained why some aspects of some of the women's complaints against him were similar. "I know these people are not always truthful," he said. "But you are?" asked Paul Sloan QC in cross-examination for the prosecution. "Yes," replied the defendant. "These people will grab any opportunity they can." The trial, which is in its fourth week, continues.
Students from Northern Ireland who travelled to London to take part in protests against tuition fees have condemned the outbreak of violence. Trouble flared after a small number of protestors attacked Millbank Tower, where the Conservative party has its headquarters, smashing windows and injuring at least two police officers. Fiona Kidd from Queen's Student Union took part in the protest. She said a small number of demonstrators were behind the trouble. "It's a tragedy that something so special and so momentous has been hijacked and destroyed by a few", she said. "We just ask people to remember the ethos of the march and that the disruption that's happening wasn't anything to do with the National Union of Students." Ruth McKee, a Belfast student at Kingston University was covering the demonstration for her student newspaper. She witnessed the violence as protestors entered the Millbank Tower. "The cobble stones were ripped up, placards were thrown hard against the glass and at that stage there was a surge from a contingent who turned up at about 2pm who pushed through and were pushing through the glass and into the foyer," she said. SDLP Youth Member Liam McNulty also took part in the protest. He said the fact that some students had become involved in violence should not overshadow the message to the government. "Tens of thousands of people marched to demand the sort of higher education system that both David Cameron and Nick Clegg themselves enjoyed but which they are now threatening to deny a new generation," he said. "That some students took part in civil disobedience in no way detracts from the scale of today's demonstration and their actions pale in significance to the criminal damage the Tories and Liberal Democrats are about to inflict on our universities."
A disabled cruise ship that caught fire off the coast of Mexico has arrived in San Diego and disembarked its 4,500 passengers and crew. Passengers said they had endured limited amounts of food and backed-up toilets during the three nights they spent adrift in the Pacific Ocean. The Carnival Splendor was 200 miles (310km) from San Diego when the fire broke out in its engine room on Monday. "I love being back on land," passenger Ken King told the Associated Press. The 952ft (290m) ship, which is owned by Carnival Cruise Lines, was pulled into San Diego Bay at about 0830 local time (1630 GMT) by six tugboats and escorted by several Coast Guard vessels. Individuals on the ship and about 100 people onshore cheered loudly as the Carnival Splendor reached land. By mid-afternoon on Thursday, about 2,500 passengers had disembarked the ship, which a Carnival Cruise Lines official said was better than anticipated. The evacuation of the passengers and crew was slowed by disabled elevators. "The staff was excellent. Only a few people on board were rude. The food was horrible. Starting at 5am on Monday, we didn't have toilets for 13 hours," Mr King said. The cruise line has promised to refund the passengers' fares, reimburse them for their travel costs and give them a voucher for another cruise.
Polish composer Henryk Gorecki has died at the age of 76, the country's national orchestra has announced. He was best known for his Symphony of Sorrowful Songs, which was composed in 1976 and sold more than a million copies following a 1992 re-release. The symphony - part of which drew on an inscription scrawled on a Nazi prison wall during World War II - featured vocals from US soprano Dawn Upshaw. It was often played on radio station Classic FM when it launched in 1992. Gorecki had been suffering from a prolonged illness, a spokeswoman for Polish Radio's National Symphony Orchestra said. Monumental style Henryk Mikolaj Gorecki was born close to the industrial city of Katowice in southern Poland, where he studied music and taught at the city's music academy. His early works were avant-garde in style, and later influenced by folk music of his native land. By the 1970s he had developed the monumental style for which he became famous. He was often at odds with the communist authorities in Poland and withdrew from public life in the 1980s to concentrate on composing. His Symphony No. 3, which dealt with themes of war and separation in a slow, stark style, became the best-selling record by a contemporary composer. Gorecki had completed his fourth symphony, the premiere of which was shelved on account of his illness. Last month he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle, Poland's highest honour.
France's state rail company has for the first time publicly expressed regret for its role in transporting Jews to Nazi death camps in World War II. Until now, SNCF has said its workers were forced to assist in deportations by the occupying German army. The change of language is clearly linked to the lucrative market for high-speed rail contracts in the US. The company has been criticised in the US for failing to apologise for its involvement. French state-owned trains and state-paid rail workers were responsible for carrying some 76,000 Jews from France to Germany and the east in World War II. Only a few of them returned. Ever since, SNCF has insisted that it was not responsible: the rail operator was requisitioned by the German occupier and workers had no choice but to obey. But now on a trip to the United States, the rail company's chief executive Guillaume Pepy has issued a statement that goes much further. He said that SNCF expressed its "profound sorrow and regret" for the consequences of its actions. As a statement of contrition, it is unprecedented, but it does not come out of the blue. In two US states - California and Florida - SNCF is hoping to win multi-billion dollar contracts to build high-speed rail links, similar to the ones that it has operated for years in France. However, in both states there have been efforts by some lawmakers and Jewish groups to bar from the bidding any concern that does not come clean about its wartime role in the deportations. The French company is clearly the target of these moves, which have been decried by some as patently protectionist in motivation.
Experts are urging people to report sightings of so-called clouds of starlings within the M25. Starlings take to the skies above the UK in large numbers between November and February - a wildlife spectacle known as a murmuration. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) wants the details and images of any such events across London to be recorded on its Facebook page. According to the RSPB starling numbers in London are continuing to fall. The wildlife charity says the expansion of the city, eating into suitable permanent pasture, is thought to have resulted in the huge numbers of starlings that once lived in the capital moving away. Across the UK as a whole starling populations have fallen by more than 70% in recent years putting them on the list of UK birds most at risk, it claims. Despite this they remain the second most common bird identified in London's Gardens, according to the 2010 Big Garden Birdwatch. The huge gatherings of starlings are at their largest in winter as they are boosted by thousands of migrant birds visiting from the European continent for Britain's milder Atlantic climate. Numbers of starlings in a roost can swell to around 100,000 in some places. The best time to see them is early evening, just before dusk, as they perform their aerial dance and choose their communal night-time shelter. Johann Holt of the RSPB said: "The starling roost is one of the most incredible natural spectacles we enjoy here in the UK and they are so easy to see. "You know that at a certain time in the evening the sky will start to turn black and it's mesmerizing watching the flock grow and grow."
US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates says UN sanctions have hit Iran hard and created a rift between the country's supreme leader and president. He said Ayatollah Ali Khamenei feared that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was "lying" about the impact of sanctions. The UN has slapped four rounds of economic penalties on Iran over its disputed nuclear weapons programme. Mr Gates argued against a military strike on Iran, saying it would only unite the country against the West. Addressing the Wall Street Journal's CEO Council in Washington, he said that military action would only "bring together a divided nation" and make Tehran's weapons programme "deeper and more covert". Iran has repeatedly denied pursuing atomic weapons. It says its nuclear work is for civilian projects such as energy and medical research. Mr Gates said that UN sanctions had "bitten much harder" than Iran's leadership had expected, and was causing tensions at the highest levels. "The information we have is that they've been surprised by the impact of the sanctions," Gates said. "We even have some evidence that [Ayatollah] Khamenei now is beginning to wonder if [President] Ahmadinejad is lying to him about the impact of the sanctions on the economy," he added. Publicly, Mr Ahmadinejad has insisted that the measures have had no impact on Iran's economy. Also on Tuesday, the Iranian air force started a five-day military exercise designed to test Iran's defences against air strikes. Tehran said it was the biggest exercise of its kind it had ever staged.
Veteran rock singer Patti Smith has won a prestigious US book award for her memoir, Just Kids. The 63-year-old received the National Book Award for non-fiction for her work, which chronicles her youth in 1960s New York. As she collected her $10,000 (Â£6,254) prize, Smith urged publishers not to let technology kill traditional books. "There is nothing more beautiful than the book, the paper, the font, the cloth," she said at the New York event. Jaimy Gordon won the fiction award for Lord of Misrule, about a horseman's scheme to rescue his failing stable. It was a surprise win for Gordon, who has been releasing books through small publishers for the last 20 years. She said she had not expected to win, but that friends had told her she had given them hope just by being nominated. The poetry award was presented to Terrance Hayes for his fourth collection, Lighthead Kathryn Erskine won the young people's literature award for Mockingbird, about an 11-year-old with Asperger's syndrome coping with her brother's death. Best-selling author Tom Wolfe was presented a medal for distinguished contribution to American letters. The 79-year-old author of The Bonfire of the Vanities sang a few lines from The Girl of Ipanema as he collected his honour on Wednesday. The National Book Awards have been presented annually by the National Book foundation since 1950.
US singer Chris Brown has been praised by a judge in Los Angeles for his "consistent" community service work. The 21-year-old was given five years of probation last August and six months of community labour after pleading guilty to assaulting pop star Rihanna. Seen recently in the film Takers, Brown has been cleaning roads and removing graffiti in his home state of Virginia. During a brief court hearing, Judge Patricia Schnegg said he had been "working diligently" on his duties. "Out of thousands of probationers, no one has done a better or more consistent job than you have," she said on Thursday. "I really want to commend you for taking responsibility and for actually working diligently to complete all the things the court has required of you." Brown has  almost completed the domestic violence counselling he was required to undertake as part of his sentence. "Obviously he's gratified and he's working hard to live up to everyone's expectations," said his lawyer, Mark Geragos. Brown was arrested in February 2009 after attacking Rihanna, his then-girlfriend, on the eve of the Grammy Awards. The singer, whose hits include Run It! and Kiss Kiss, later said he was "very sad and very ashamed" of his actions.
A total of 47 people have taken membership of Scotland's first bike hire scheme in its first 10 weeks. The Â£155,000 Dumfries Bike2Go project was launched by Transport Minister Stewart Stevenson in September. Latest figures from Dumfries and Galloway Council show there have been an average of about 20 rentals a week since the project got under way. A spokesman for the authority said winter weather had not been "conducive" to people using the bicycles. The scheme is the first of its kind in Scotland and was set up to encourage people to get "out of their cars and onto their bicycles". It provides bikes free of charge to subscribers at nine locations across the town. It is based on similar schemes in Paris, Barcelona, Stockholm and one in London which clocked up one million journeys in its first 10 weeks. The Dumfries project has now been running the same length of time although the latest figures only cover the period up to 31 October. They show a total of 142 rentals by members with peak times between 1pm and 6pm and the most popular "hire hub" being in the Dock Park. The top user has made more than 20 rentals. A council spokesman said the figures had to be viewed in the context of the scheme being in its early days and also the fact that it was now winter. He added: "Obviously the recent weather hasn't been conducive to cycling unless the rider is pre-prepared with clothing suitable for cycling in wet weather. "We are working to build the number of users and a marketing campaign in the spring will encourage increased use of the bikes."
Turkmenistan has pledged to supply natural gas for the planned Nabucco pipeline - a major project that should allow EU countries to rely less on Russian energy in future. Turkmenistan says it will have up to 40bn cubic metres (1,412bn cu ft) of spare gas annually, "so European countries need not worry". The pledge came from Turkmen Deputy PM Baymyrad Hojamuhamedov on Friday. Uncertainty about Nabucco's gas supply has been delaying the project. The 3,300km (2,046-mile) pipeline is expected to pump up to 31bn cubic metres of gas annually from the Caspian region and Middle East across Turkey and into Europe. In July 2009 Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Austria signed an agreement to build the long-planned pipeline. Turkmenistan's announcement came at an international energy conference in the ex-Soviet republic's capital, Ashgabat. Mr Hojamuhamedov said Turkmenistan had support from its Caspian neighbours for building a pipeline under the Caspian Sea, to connect up to the Nabucco pipeline. He said delivering gas to Europe was part of Turkmenistan's plan to diversify its export markets. It already sells gas to Iran, China and Russia. Nabucco is expected to cost about 7.9bn euros (Â£6.7bn) and is projected to come on stream by the end of 2014, Reuters news agency reports. Russia is forging ahead with South Stream, a pipeline that will run from southern Russia under the Black Sea to Bulgaria. It is seen as a major rival to Nabucco. The EU relies on Russia for a quarter of its total gas supplies. Seven countries in the 27-nation bloc are almost totally dependent on Russian gas.
Residents in a Gloucestershire village could take over their local post office store to save it from closure. Joy and Dave Gaynton have run the shop, in Uley, near Dursley, for more than 10 years but plan to retire next June. The couple said they had already put the business on the market three years running, but failed to find a buyer. Villagers have voted to set up a steering committee to look at the possibility of a community-run shop if a new owner cannot be found. Parish councillor Janet Wood said it was fundamental to life in Uley. "It's where we get all the village information, posters are put up and apart from buying goods, it's just a very important social centre," she said. "It would be very difficult for people to manage [without it] and it's always the older people, the younger people, people without cars who take the hit." Mrs Gaynton said: "I really wanted to sell it as an ongoing concern because it's a big part of Uley and as I've invested so much time and effort into it myself, it would be sad to see it go. "My husband retires from teaching in a few years' time and my parents are getting older. My children have left the nest so it's time to move on for us."
An Australian government inquiry has blamed the country's worst offshore oil leak on the rig's Thai owner. The report said PTTEP Australasia, a unit of Thailand's PTT Exploration and Production, had failed to observe "sensible" practice. The Australian Resources Minister told parliament the Thai firm should have its operating licence reviewed. More than 400 barrels of oil a day spewed into the pristine Timor Sea off Australia's north coast for 10 weeks. The oil hit the coast of Indonesia and East Timor. Oil began leaking from the West Atlas rig and Montara wellhead platform north of Australia last August. It was plugged on a fifth attempt in November 2009, after a slick had spread an estimated 90,000 sq km (35,000 sq miles). "The widespread and systematic shortcomings of PTTEP Australasia's procedures were a direct cause of the loss of well-control," Mr Ferguson said. "Well-control practices approved by the regulator would have been sufficient to prevent the loss of well-control, however PTTEP Australasia did not adhere to these practices or its own well-construction standards," he said. The company paid $390m (Â£245m) for the clean-up but the minister said he thought relevant laws needed to be strengthened to make absolutely clear that companies would be held responsible for any future leaks. He also criticised the Australian government regulator which had pursued a "minimalist" approach in handling the emergency, saying the entire incident had been avoidable. There was no immediate response from PTTEP. The government ordered the inquiry while environmentalists have expressed concerns about the waters off Australia's north-west coast, which are home to whales and dolphins.
Dirty Dancing actress Jennifer Grey has been crowned winner of US TV show Dancing With The Stars. The 50-year-old, who ruptured a disc in her back on Monday, had been the front runner after scoring consistently high marks from the judges. "The absolute destination for me was the journey. The journey was the gift," she said after winning the show. Former child star Kyle Massey was runner-up and politician Sarah Palin's daughter Bristol came third. Grey, who also suffered problems with her neck and knee during the series, said her mind went blank just before the winner was announced. "I was in a surrender moment of whatever happens will be great," the trained dancer said. Palin's appearance seemed to divide audiences, after one angry man blasted his TV set with a shotgun while watching the show last week. Voting problems However, public support kept her in the contest, despite finishing bottom with the judges for more than six weeks. "This has been a life-changing experience," she said. The 20-year-old added she had no expectations about her performance, but admitted that winning would have been like "a big middle finger to all the people out there that hate my mom and hate me". There were some voting problems on the final show after producers said they had received a "record amount of activity", putting its online and telephone voting systems under strain. "Some viewers reported experiencing difficulties registering their votes for the Dancing With The Stars finale, which affected each finalist equally," producers said in a statement. But the issues was dealt with "promptly" and voting times were not extended.
Police in Egypt have clashed with hundreds of Coptic Christians over the construction of a new church. One protester was killed and dozens of people were injured as police fired tear gas and the Christians threw stones and petrol bombs. The Christians said they had permission to build the church, in Cairo's Giza district, but officials said they did not have the proper permit. Protests on this scale are rare from Egypt's Christians. They make up about 10% of the country's 85 million population. There has been friction in the past between the majority Muslims and Christians, who complain they do not have the same freedom to build places of worship. The interior ministry said more than 100 people had been arrested. A ring of police surrounded the church in order to prevent construction of the church and security was tight in the Giza suburb. "People here feel very discriminated against. We can't build the church - why are they stopping us?" said Samih Rashid. "Every street has a mosque, every church has a mosque next to it," he told AFP news agency. Some reports said the builders were trying to convert a Christian social centre into a church without the proper permit - something the Christians denied. "When we noticed indications that it was turning into a church, we told the church authorities to halt construction because a church would require a different licence," Giza governor Sayyed Abdel-Aziz was quoted as saying by Reuters news agency.
Police in Taiwan have arrested a man who allegedly killed another man and used the body to fake his suicide and avoid going to jail for a sex offence. The death was confirmed as murder days after the suspect burned his victim's body and changed his identity. The 33-year-old suspect, surnamed Sun, allegedly kidnapped his 29-year-old victim, tied his hands behind his back, and set him and a rented car on fire. But Sun forgot to untie his victim's hands and left the body by the car. Local residents reported the fire and it was extinguished before the victim's body was completely burned. Sun had left a suicide note nearby but DNA tests later revealed the body was not his. Police say Mr Sun had also stolen his victim's identity card and convinced a government office to issue him a new ID card with his own picture on it by claiming he had gained weight. He was about 25kg (3st 13lb) heavier than his victim. Sun had recently been sentenced to eight years in prison for a sex offence, but under Taiwan's legal system he was allowed to remain free until his deadline to report to prison. His victim was a student studying for a doctorate in business management. Police said the two may have met online. Police tracked Sun down after finding the victim's scooter, which Sun was using.
Swiss bank UBS is being sued for over $2bn (Â£1.3bn) amid claims it concealed the Ponzi scheme of fraudster Bernard Madoff that lost clients billions. Irving Picard - who is acting as trustee for Madoff's victims - lodged the lawsuit against UBS and various associates at a US bankruptcy court. The bank, which has made no comment on the charges, earned fees for promoting and administering Madoff's funds. Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison for the scheme exposed in 2008. The fraudster claimed high and stable returns for his investment fund over many years, attracting large investments from wealthy individuals. In reality, the fund was worth only a fraction of what he claimed, and Madoff relied on "feeder funds" - such as those managed by UBS - in order to attract new investor money that could then be used to pay out the bogus return to existing investors. "Madoff's scheme could not have been accomplished unless UBS had agreed not only to look the other way, but also to pretend that they were truly ensuring the existence of assets and trades when in fact they were not and never did," said David Sheehan, a lawyer acting on behalf of the trustee, Mr Picard. The lawsuit claims UBS and its co-defendants made approximately $80m in fees over several years from their work with Madoff. UBS "chose to enable Madoff's fraud for their own gain", claimed the trustee, and the bank's involvement gave the fraudster "an aura of legitimacy". The Swiss bank is not alone in being accused of complicity in the fraud. Mr Picard has filed at least 19 other lawsuits against other feeder funds, and is seeking to recover $17.5bn in total, including the money claimed from UBS.
Canadian military police are investigating fake calls to families of soldiers in Afghanistan claiming their relative has died in combat, authorities have said. At least three families at a military base in Quebec have been targeted, according to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. One woman was reportedly told her husband had been killed by a bomb. Police say those responsible could face jail time if caught. Canadian Forces always deliver news of a soldier's death in person, National Defence spokeswoman Chantale Le Bouthillier told AFP news agency. "Military personnel should not be needlessly worried about their families when they are fighting for our country in far away lands," said Defence Minister Peter MacKay, adding that the imposters responsible for the calls were "insensitive, amoral and disgusting". He added: "It is our hope that the perpetrators of this despicable action are brought to justice." A family centre at the Canadian Forces Base Valcartier in Quebec has offered counselling to those who have been targeted by the phoney calls. The news follows last week's announcement by Canadian government ministers that the country would send up to 950 military trainers to Afghanistan after its combat troops leave the country next year. Canada has nearly 3,000 troops in Afghanistan. The country has come under international pressure not to pull out at a time when the US is boosting its military commitment.
Irvin Kershner, director of Star Wars film The Empire Strikes Back, has died in Los Angeles aged 87, his agent has confirmed. Kershner - who also directed James Bond film Never Say Never Again - died at home after a long illness, according to his goddaughter Adriana Santini. Born in Philadelphia in 1923, Kershner trained as a musician before making documentaries and then features. His other credits include Robocop 2 and Eyes of Laura Mars with Faye Dunaway. Known as "Kersh", the director was behind the camera when Sir Sean Connery reprised his 007 role in 1983's Never Say Never Again. The University of Southern California film school graduate had previously worked with Connery on his 1966 romantic drama A Fine Madness. Kershner also directed Barbra Streisand in 1972 comedy Up the Sandbox and Richard Harris in 1976 sequel The Return of a Man Called Horse. Yet he remains best known for The Empire Strikes Back, considered by many to be the best film in the Star Wars series. "I think it went beyond Star Wars," he once said. "You had some humour [and] you got to know the characters a little better. "I saw it as the second movement in an opera."
A Labour MP has told how she wanted to punch a voter who called her a thief during the general election campaign after the scandal over parliamentary expenses . Ann Clwyd told the Commons it had led to innocent MPs being smeared as crooks. The Cynon Valley MP also complained of stories being leaked to the press. MPs have been airing their frustrations about their new expenses scheme set up in the wake of last year's scandal. Their debate comes as the body set up in the wake of the expenses scandal, the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (Ipsa), has published 22,000 MPs' expenses claims paying out Â£3.1m. The new rules for expenses mean, for example, MPs cannot claim mortgage interest, just rent, and can only travel first class in limited circumstances. There is still anger among MPs about how they have been portrayed. Mrs Clwyd told the House of Commons: "During my election campaign somebody came up to me and shouted thief, and if I had been a man I would have run after him and punched him in the face because I feel so strongly. "I am not a thief, I have never been a thief and I object on behalf of other members of this house that they should be considered to be thieves in some way because the vast majority of people in this place are nothing of the sort." She went on to suggest that "anti-MP" stories were being leaked by people at Ipsa. She said that every time there was a debate on the expenses system, a story would appear in the press the day before. Ipsa has taken exception to her comments and accused MPs, and Mrs Clwyd in particular, of trying to undermine the professional integrity of its staff.
A detailed depiction of Henry VIII's "lost" palace has failed to meet its reserve price at auction. Nonsuch Palace - named because no other palace could equal it - was built for the Tudor king to celebrate the birth of his first legitimate son. Construction of the site in Cuddington, near Epsom, Surrey, began in 1538 but it fell into disrepair in the 17th Century and nothing now remains. Joris Hoefnagel's watercolour had been expected to fetch up to Â£1.2m. Henry VIII wanted Nonsuch to outshine the great palaces built by his rival, King Francis I of France. The parish church of Cuddington was flattened to make way for it, in a demonstration of Henry's new dominance as head of the Church of England. It was still incomplete when Henry died in 1547 and fell into disrepair in the 1680s. By 1690 it was all but gone. The 1568 watercolour is said by Christie's to be the earliest and most detailed depiction of the palace. Benjamin Peronnet, head of Old Master and 19th Century drawings at Christie's, said it was the most important depiction of the palace. "Not only is it one of the earliest British watercolours and a work of art of immense beauty, but it is also the most exact pictorial record of Henry VIII's great commission," he said. "Nonsuch Palace stood for less than 150 years and there are only four contemporary depictions that are known to survive. "Of these, the watercolour is the earliest, and the only one to show a true impression of the 'lost' palace."
Israel has dismissed Egyptian claims that a series of shark attacks in the Red Sea could have been the result of a plot carried out by its foreign intelligence agency, Mossad. The reports - apparently quoting the South Sinai governor - have been picked up by the Israeli media. An elderly woman was killed by a shark in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh on Sunday. Several other swimmers have been mauled in the past week. Conspiracy theories are always popular in the Middle East, with unlikely suggestions often made that troubles in Arab countries could be caused by Mossad agents. Rumours had circulated in Egypt that there could be an Israeli connection to this unusual spate of Red Sea shark attacks. However, it was comments attributed to the South Sinai governor, Mohamed Abdul Fadil Shousha, carried on an official Egyptian news site that drew attention. "What is being said about the Mossad throwing the deadly shark [in the sea] to hit tourism in Egypt is not out of the question, but it needs time to confirm," he is reported to have said. The Jerusalem Post picked up on the story - quoting Israeli officials who rejected the notion as "ludicrous". Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Igal Palmor then told the BBC: "The man must have seen Jaws one time too many, and confuses fact and fiction." It has also been pointed out that visitors to Israel as well as Egypt might be alarmed by the shark attacks. Israel has its own holiday resorts on the Red Sea coast, and Sharm el-Sheikh is popular with its citizens.
Parents should be free to photograph their children in nativity plays, the Information Commissioner has said. The advice was issued after a number of schools banned photography on their premises to protect pupils who were adopted or in foster care. Earlier this week a father complained he was threatened with arrest at a school in Leicestershire. Information Commissioner Christopher Graham said such photos did not breach the Data Protection Act. BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones says it is a common experience at this time of year for proud parents trying to take pictures of their children performing in nativity plays to be be told by teachers that photography is banned. The Information Commissioner's Office has released guidance for schools after receiving numerous queries from parents. The regulator said photos for personal use were not covered by the Data Protection Act. Fear of breaching the law should not be used to to stop people taking pictures or videos, he added. Mr Graham said: "Having a child perform at a school play or a festive concert is a very proud moment for parents and is understandably a memory that many want to capture on camera. "It is disappointing to hear that the myth that such photos are forbidden by the Data Protection Act still prevails in some schools." He added: "A common sense approach is needed. Clearly, photographs simply taken for a family album are exempt from data protection laws. "Armed with our guidance, parents should feel free to snap away this Christmas and stand ready to challenge any schools or councils that say 'bah, humbug' to a bit of festive fun."
A Dali watercolour of a reclining nude that once hung in Playboy founder Hugh Hefner's bedroom has fetched $266,500 (Â£168,500) at a New York auction. The nude, which featured in a 1967 issue of Playboy, was among 125 artworks owned by the magazine to go under the hammer at Christie's. Mouth No. 8, a 1966 oil painting of a scarlet-lipsticked mouth by pop artist Tom Wesselmann, sold for $1.9m (Â£1.2m). Wednesday's sale included 80 photos and 24 cartoons. Nearly all the items up for grabs had appeared in the magazine, first published in 1953. The Dali watercolour was part of a 1967 issue that asked artists to create art inspired by Playboy's "Playmate" models. Sold to an anonymous bidder, the piece had been expected to fetch no more than $150,000 (Â£95,000). Wesselmann's work, part of a series the artist began in 1965, sold for slightly less than expected. Yet Aaron Baker, curator of the Playboy Art Collection, still called it a great example of his work "from his best period". In an interview last month, Playboy editor-in-chief Hefner said the magazine had blurred the lines between "fine" and "popular" art. "Before Playboy and a few other places, commercial art was essentially... very realistic," the 84-year-old said. "We introduced into commercial illustration the whole notion of everything from abstract to semi-abstract to stuff that you found on a gallery wall." According to Baker, the sale represented a fraction of Playboy's archive of 5,000 contemporary works and more than 20 million photographs. The archive is currently held at a storage building in Chicago, where Playboy Enterprises is based.
Nepal's employment ministry has lifted a ban on the country's women going to Gulf countries to work and introduced new rules designed to protect them. The ban has been in force since 1998, when a Nepalese domestic worker who had been abused in Kuwait, committed suicide, creating a national scandal. Authorities barred women from travelling to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. But many continue to travel to these countries to escape Nepal's poverty. Campaigners say most travel via India to avoid detection. "Before they can recruit workers, employers will have to assure us they will provide insurance, accommodation, security and a basic wage," news agency AFP quoted employment ministry spokesman Purnachandra Bhattarai as saying. The guarantees would be monitored by Nepalese embassies, who would be responsible for defining a minimum wage for each country, Mr Bhattarai added. An estimated two million poor women from countries such as Indonesia, Sri Lanka, the Philippines and Nepal work in the wealthy Gulf countries. Many often face mistreatment and abuse at the hand of their employers. Campaign group Human Rights Watch says that many domestic workers are denied food or medical care and sometimes detained against their will. They have few avenues to make complaints or obtain shelter. The group says that in 2009 domestic workers in Kuwait filed over 10,000 complaints about their treatment with their embassies. The Kuwaiti government, however, denies any widespread abuse is taking place.
Former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has quit the country amid a corruption inquiry, but reportedly denies fleeing from prosecution. Mr Sanader, now an independent MP, crossed the border into Slovenia hours before parliament voted to lift his immunity from prosecution. Investigators have been focusing on officials from the ruling HDZ party who were in office under Mr Sanader. Brussels has put pressure on EU-hopeful Croatia to stamp out corruption. Mr Sanader was in power from 2003 until he stepped down in July 2009 in a surprise move. He was expelled from the HDZ in January but carried on as an independent MP, and so he still enjoyed immunity from prosecution. But all 104 parliamentarians present at the vote chose to lift his immunity. The BBC's Balkans correspondent Mark Lowen says Mr Sanader has been linked to corruption allegations involving the Austrian bank Hypo, and he is the highest-profile politician in the country to be facing investigation. The former prime minister crossed into Slovenia on Thursday, the interior ministry said, adding that police had had no legal reason to stop him. Croatian newspaper Vecernji List contacted him to ask if he was "on the run", and whether he would respond to a summons issued by anti-corruption investigators. "I am on a trip, planned beforehand and of course I will respond," he was quoted as replying in a text message. On Monday, former Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic, who served in Mr Sanader's cabinet from 2003 to 2007, was sentenced to five years in prison for corruption on Monday. Since Mr Sanader's departure from office, a dozen managers of banks and state companies have been arrested for corruption but in most cases indictments are still pending, Reuters news agency reports.
Radiographer Mala Trivedi was caught up in the Russell Square blast as she travelled to work from her Wembley home. Mrs Trivedi, 51, was a manager in the X-ray department at London's Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick Children with more than 30 years of experience in the profession. She died on the Piccadilly Line train travelling south from King's Cross station. Mrs Trivedi was born and educated in Nairobi, Kenya, and met her husband Ashock there while a student in 1968. The couple travelled back and forth between the two countries, marrying in Britain 1975. They returned to Kenya for four years, where Mrs Trivedi worked in a hospital X-ray department, but came back to the UK in 1979, and in 1986 had a son, Kunaal. She worked in St Thomas's Hospital until June 2001 and rose to be the Pictures, Archiving and Communications System (PACS) manager. Then she moved to the PACS manager position at Great Ormond Street. Dr Cathy Owens, paying tribute to her on behalf of the department of radiology, said: "Mala had a particular combination of skills as an IT expert and a radiographer which enabled her to set up and run the imaging IT system at Great Ormond Street. "Her dedication to her job and her cheery polite nature made her a very popular member of the close-knit team which she helped to lead. "Mala was kind and empathic and for her, work was a vocation." She said her colleagues would miss "her tireless dedication and her cheery disposition". Ten days after the London attacks, Mrs Trivedi's son visited Russell Square, to be near the spot where his mother died.
Anna Brandt, a 41-year-old, had been living in London for three years after leaving her hometown of Wagrowiec in western Poland. On 7 July 2005 she left her home in Wood Green, north London, and set off to Hammersmith, where she worked as a cleaner. She took the Piccadilly Line underground train at 0800 BST heading towards Gunnersbury. But she never arrived at work, sparking a desperate search by her brother Pawel Iskrzynski. He spent several days searching for her, holding a picture of his sister. Police took his DNA sample and subsequently confirmed that she had died near Russell Square, with 25 others and the suicide bomber. In a police statement read out at the inquest into her death, Mr Iskryzinski described his sister as a very private person who did not smoke or drink alcohol and had just two close friends. "She would normally return home from her job and stay indoors and did not pursue leisure activities," he said. In 1981, straight out of school, she ran her own restaurant business and a couple of years later, she married Arek Brandt. Together, they had two children, Hubert and Natalie. In 2002, after the restaurant closed, Ms Brandt moved to London, leaving her husband in Poland to look after their children. The couple separated a year before Ms Brandt's death. While in London, Ms Brandt shared a house with her brother and dabbled in bar work before becoming a cleaner. Most of her earnings were sent back to Poland to help pay for her children's education. Her daughter Natalie had arrived in the UK on the day of the explosions to visit her mother. Hubert is thought to have been living in Sweden when his mother died.
Remains found at Waterfoot beach, County Antrim, last month were those of Peter Wilson, one of the "Disappeared", it has been confirmed. Mr Wilson was 21 when he went missing from his home in the Falls Road area of west Belfast in 1973. He is believed to have been abducted and murdered by the IRA. On Tuesday, the Independent Commission for the Location of Victims Remains (ICLVR) said results of DNA tests confirmed the remains were Mr Wilson's. His body will now be released to his family. Members of the Wilson family had just attended a walk at Stormont in memory of the Disappeared on 2 November when a call came through to say his remains had been found. His sister, Anne Connolly, said it was a shock to learn recently that he might be buried in Waterfoot as her mother, Lily, who died three years ago, often sat on village beach. She spoke of a "mixture of relief, and great sadness" to learn that his body had been found so soon after the dig began. Archaeologists and other experts had been examining the beach at Waterfoot in the Glens of Antrim after a tip-off to the ICLVR. The commission has now overseen the discovery of seven bodies and numerous searches since it was set up in 1999 to locate those murdered and buried in secret graves by republican paramilitaries during the troubles. Remains found in County Monaghan in July were confirmed as being those of Crossmaglen man Charlie Armstrong, a 57-year-old father-of-five who went missing on his way to Mass in 1981. In October, the remains of Mr Armstrong's neighbour, Gerry Evans, were found at a site in County Louth.
A US court has indicted a Dutch member of the Colombian Farc rebel group on kidnapping charges. Tanja Nijmeijer joined the left-wing guerrilla group shortly after her arrival in Colombia, and is believed to be still at large. The court accuses her of hostage-taking and "conspiracy to provide support to terrorists". The federal grand jury says she was part of a group of Farc rebels who kidnapped three American contractors. The three, Marc Gonsalves, Keith Stansell and Thomas Howe, were taken hostage by the Farc after their plane crashed in the jungle. They were freed by the Colombian security forces after five years in captivity in 2008, alongside Colombian hostages, including the former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt. US Attorney Ronald Machen says the indictment "demonstrates our firm resolve to bring to justice every last Farc commander who played any part in this brutal act of terrorism". Ms Nijmeijer, 32, joined the Farc in 2002 after having taught English in a school in Pereira, in central Colombia. In an interview for Radio Netherlands recorded in August 2010, she said she would fight until victory or death. She also warned the Colombian authorities that if they tried to rescue her she would "meet them with machine guns, mines and mortars". "I am proud to be a guerrilla and to be able to work together with the Colombian people and the other guerrillas, to take power and proclaim the revolution," she told Colombian journalist Jorge Enrique Botero in Spanish during the interview in the jungle. The federal grand jury charged Ms Nijmeijer and 17 other Farc rebels with hostage-taking, conspiracy to provide support and weapons charges. If they were to be caught, extradited to the United States and convicted, the 18 could face up to 60 years in jail.
Nearly one in five children in England leave primary school obese, figures show. The data, from the school measuring programme, also showed one in 10 pupils start school obese. The figures show small rises from previous years although as the scheme is voluntary it is hard to draw firm conclusions. Predictions from a separate report last year suggested childhood obesity was levelling off. In total, 18.7% of year six pupils were obese, the report released by the NHS Information Centre showed. The figure rises to 33.4% when overweight children are taken into account. For the reception year, the figures are 9.8% and 23.1% respectively. All these measures show slight increases from 2008-9, although the NHS Information Centre which produced the report said they were not statistically significant. This is mainly because parents can refuse to let their children take part in the programme - and one in 10 do. Nonetheless, more than 1m children took part, making it the largest child weight survey of its kind. Tim Straughan, chief executive of the NHS Information Centre, said: "These statistics suggest that more needs to be done at a younger age to combat obesity within primary education and positively encourage healthy eating and participation in physical activity to reduce future health implications for these children." Tam Fry, from the National Obesity Forum, said the figures were shaming. "The fact that obesity doubles during the primary school years from reception year shows that the government must rethink its recent proposals on school dinners and physical activity." Dr Helen Walters, obesity spokesperson for the UK Faculty of Public Health, said she still believed the rise in obesity was beginning to tail off. Bue she added: "The situation will take decades to sort out and as it stands, the picture remains bleak."
A forest in the Highlands holds a "lost world" of rare and endangered spiders, ants and flies, according the charity that owns the woodland. Forres-based Trees for Life said surveys of the woods on its 10,000-acre Dundreggan Estate in Glen Moriston had uncovered a range of invertebrates. Finds include strawberry spider, azure hawker dragonfly, juniper shield bug and blood red slave making ants. Trees for Life bought the estate in a Â£1.6m deal in 2008. The land includes some of the last stands of ancient Caledonian Forest. Trees for Life said strawberry spider, scientific name araneus alsine, has only been recorded seven times in Scotland prior to it being found at Dundreggan. The charity believed its forest could have the largest population of the spider in Scotland. Two rare sawflies, prisiphora borea and monoctenus juniperi, have also been identified and are among the UK's rarest invertebrates. Alan Watson Featherstone, executive director of Trees for Life, said the list of species had been released to help mark 2010 International Year of Biodiversity. He said: "The remarkable discoveries at Dundreggan are rapidly establishing its reputation as a 'lost world' for the Highlands, inhabited by an important range of species that are rare or were once thought to be extinct locally. "Given the loss of biodiversity globally, the richness of life on the estate highlights the importance of on-the-ground conservation projects, and the urgency of restoring Scotland's Caledonian Forest to the Highlands."
Maithripala Sirisena was sworn in as Sri Lankan president after a shock victory over veteran strongman Mahinda Rajapakse in a January 2015 election dominated by charges of corruption and growing authoritarianism. Mr Sirisena was elected with 51.28% of the vote compared with Mr Rajapakse's 47.58%. The former health minister, who united a fractured opposition to pull off an unlikely victory, promised sweeping reforms of the presidency and said he would transfer many of its executive powers to parliament. He was elected on a tide of resentment against Mr Rajapakse, who rewrote the constitution after his re-election in 2010 to remove the two-term limit on the presidency and give himself more powers over public servants and judges. Mr Rajapakse enjoyed huge support among majority Sinhalese voters after overseeing the end of a separatist war by ethnic Tamil rebels in 2009. But critics say he failed to bring about reconciliation in the years that followed his crushing victory over the Tamil Tiger guerrillas. Mr Sirisena's decision to run triggered a slew of defections and became a rallying point for disaffection with Mr Rajapakse and his powerful family. Like Mr Rajapaksa, Mr Sirisena is from the majority Sinhala Buddhist community, but he has reached out to ethnic minority Tamils and Muslims and has the support of several small parties. He was set to lead a motley coalition of ethnic, religious, Marxist and centre-right parties, which analysts said could hamper economic reform and encourage populist policies.
Sri Lanka's media divide along language and ethnic lines, with the state and private operators offering services. Many of the main outlets are state-owned, including two major TV stations, radio networks operated by the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (SLBC), and newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English. There are more than a dozen private radios, and a handful of privately-run TV stations. Sri Lanka's privately-owned press and broadcasters often engage in political debate, and criticise government policies. At the height of the civil war Sri Lanka was described as one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. The state of emergency imposed at the beginning of the conflict was lifted in 2011, but Reporters Without Borders says that murders, threats and censorship continue, with top officials "directly implicated" in serious press freedom violations. The government is particularly sensitive to accusations of human rights abuses in the closing phases of the civil war and subsequently. In 2012, a minister said "mudslinging" would not be tolerated. In April 2013, Amnesty International said that Sri Lanka was still violently suppressing dissent and that journalists were among the targets of "government-sanctioned abuse". BBC World Service is carried by the SLBC under an agreement between the broadcasters. There were some 5.7 million internet users by December 2014 (Internetworldstats.com). The web is a popular and growing medium for news. The government has stepped up online censorship, blocking access to some independent news websites, reports US-based Freedom House.
Los Angeles detectives investigating the alleged "grim sleeper" serial killer have said they expect to hear from up to 1,000 women after publicising photos found in his house. Police have released images of 160 women in an effort to identify them - and to determine whether to charge Lonnie Franklin over more deaths. The mechanic has pleaded not guilty to 10 murders between 1985 and 2007. Most of the victims were prostitutes who were sexually assaulted and shot. The attacker was given his moniker because he apparently stopped killing between 1988 and 2002. Police said they opted to release the images found in Mr Franklin's house because they needed to identify the women - and learn if any are missing or presumed dead. Many of the women were shown in photographs and home video in states of undress or in sexually graphic poses. "Now that we know who he is and what type of activity he is involved in with women, we are very concerned for everyone in these photographs," Detective Dennis Kilcoyne said. Many of the women appear to be willing participants in the photography, although others appear to be sleeping, unconscious or dead. After spending years investigating the killings, police made a breakthrough when Mr Franklin's son - who is currently in prison - was swabbed for DNA using a technique known as a "familial search". The convict's DNA indicated he was a close relative of the serial killer.
Investigations are continuing after a 4x4 mounted the kerb and killed two students in Glasgow city centre. The women have been named as friends Mhairi Convy, 18, and Laura Stewart, 20 - both students in Glasgow. They were struck, along with a 36-year-old man, on Friday morning in North Hanover Street, close to the Buchanan Galleries shopping centre. Police said it was thought the Range Rover came off the road and hit the pedestrians on the pavement. Ms Convy from Lennoxtown, East Dunbartonshire, and Ms Stewart, from Cumbernauld, were students at Glasgow College of Commerce. Emergency crews were called to the scene and the two women were taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary where they died. The male pedestrian and the 50-year-old male driver of the Range Rover were being treated in hospital. The driver is said to be in a stable condition while the injured pedestrian has been released. Strathclyde Police have appealed for any witnesses to come forward. Officers said the cause of the crash was unknown and an inquiry was under way to establish the exact circumstances. They added that it would be inappropriate to comment or speculate on the cause until the investigation had been carried out.
The scrapping of a fire control centre for south-west England will allow Devon and Somerset fire crews to provide the best service, a fire boss has said. In 2005, the Labour government announced a plan to replace the counties' fire control rooms with a single facility in Taunton, Somerset. But now the coalition government has said the project is to be scrapped. Devon and Somerset chief fire officer Lee Howell said the move meant it could now improve its own control rooms. The Taunton centre was to be one of nine regional sites in a Â£423m scheme to replace 46 fire control centres in England. It would have been in charge of dispatching fire crews in the Devon and Somerset, Dorset, Avon, Cornwall, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire brigade areas. The centre was built but has been standing empty for about three years because of problems with its computers. It was due to open in May 2011. Critics raised concerns that if local knowledge was lost because calls were being answered in a regional centre instead of the service's two centres in Devon and Somerset, it could affect response times and risk lives. Mr Howell said the service was now looking at how to improve its control rooms "to provide the best technology, maintain the quality of service and deliver this at an affordable price". He added: "In the meantime, we will continue to provide the best level of service from our two control rooms until such time as we have determined our approach moving forward." Fire Minister Bob Neill said agreement had been reached with main contractor Cassidian to end the project. The Fire Brigades Union welcomed the decision as "long overdue".
The cases against two men accused of sex offences are not going ahead after a police officer was accused of having an affair with a rape victim. The case against Gordon Head, 32, a DJ from St Annes, Lancashire, accused of child rape, has been dropped. Separate proceedings against Nicholas Hegarty, 35, charged with sexual assault, will not go ahead. Prosecutors offered no evidence on both after Det Con John Cragg was arrested for misconduct in a public office. Mr Head was due to go on trial at Preston Crown Court last week. In a separate case Mr Hegarty, of Cleveleys, had been accused of a sex attack on a 38-year-old woman. The case surrounding Mr Cragg's alleged affair was put on hold while the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) reviewed all the cases involving the officer who worked on a specialist rape and sexual assault inquiry team in Blackpool. Mr Cragg resigned last month. A CPS spokeswoman confirmed that no evidence was offered against Mr Head or Mr Hegarty in their cases at Preston Crown Court. "The CPS carried out a further detailed review into the evidence in these cases after it recently received information about the conduct of a former police officer involved in both cases," she said. "Following consultation with senior investigating officers and prosecution counsel we reached the decision in both cases that as a result of the impact of this information on the prosecution's case there is no longer a realistic prospect of conviction." Head of Professional Standards for Lancashire Police, Supt Martyn Leveridge, said: "We are bitterly disappointed for everyone concerned that these two cases will not now be heard in full by a court of law. "We fully understand the reasons why the Crown Prosecution Service have made that decision."
A police dog which has been nominated for a bravery award is marking Christmas with retirement. German Shepherd Major worked for Staffordshire Police for six years. Major is among finalists for the National Police Dog of the Year award after tackling a man who was firing an air pistol. Major, aged eight, has given up his police duties and will live as a family pet with his handler, Pc Lance Stevenson. Staffordshire Police said Major and his handler were deployed to Hanley in October after reports a man was firing a hand gun while walking towards Sneyd Green. "Armed officers were on their way to the incident but because of the immediate threat to members of the public, Major was instructed to bring the man down," a police spokeswoman said. "Without hesitation, police dog Major quickly ran towards the male as he reached for the gun. He took hold of his right upper arm, taking him to the ground." Pc Stevenson was then able to disarm and arrest the man who later pleaded guilty to possession of a loaded air weapon in a public place, the spokeswoman added. The force said like other police dogs, Major had undergone "robust training". However, he will now put his paws up at Pc Stevenson's home, making way for the officer's new sidekick, Fonz, a two-year-old German Shepherd. The officer also handles Seamus, an English springer spaniel trained in detecting explosives. Pc Stevenson said: "Major has constantly proved to be a valuable asset to the force in the work that he has undertaken and has played his part in hundreds of arrests." The winner of the National Police Dog of the Year, which is organised by the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), is to be announced on 14 January.
Two young children whose bodies were found, along with their mother, in a house in Gwynedd had been suffocated, say police. Izaak Stevens, two, his brother Phillip Stevens, five, were both found in their bedroom at home in Trawsfyndd, Gwynedd, on Sunday night. The body of their mother Melanie was found hanging in the same bedroom. North Wales Police confirmed they are not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths. Det Chief Insp John Hanson said they were still trying to establish the "catalyst" that caused the event. Officers attended the house at around 2000 GMT on Sunday after concerned relatives reported that Ms Stevens and her two sons had not been seen for some time, Det Chief Insp  Hanson confirmed. When officers arrived at the property, they had to make a forced entry. Det Chief Insp Hanson said: "This is a very, very sad and difficult investigation. "We continue to gather evidence and the coroner is appraised. "Family liaison officers continue to work closely with the family and contact has been established with victim support." Neighbours and people in the village said the family moved to Trawsfynydd about 18 months ago from the Midlands. Ms Stevens, a mother-of-five and orginally from Blaenau Ffestiniog, has three older children, believed to be living with their father. An inquest into the deaths will be held in due course.
People with a busy social life appear to have more volume in a specific part of the brain, scans show. Research in Nature Neuroscience suggests the area - the amygdala - may have evolved to handle social networks. In a study of 58 people, taking into account age and total brain size, the US team found significant differences in the amygdala's size in people with larger, more complex social networks. This region has long been linked with emotional and mental state. The work was carried out by a team led by Dr Lisa Feldman Barrett of the Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, US. The scientists asked the healthy volunteers to list their contacts and social networks, then looked at the structure of the brain using magnetic resonance imaging. "We found that amygdala volume correlates with the size and complexity of social networks in adult humans," they write in Nature Neuroscience. "These findings indicate that the amygdala is important in social behaviour." The findings add weight to previous studies which suggest that the amygdala is important for social behaviour. They suggest this part of the brain might have evolved partly to help deal with humans' increasingly complex social life. Dr Lisa Feldman Barrett told the BBC: "A larger amygdala probably enables humans to more effectively identify, learn about and recognise social and emotional cues in each other, allowing us to develop complex strategies to get along and get ahead in life." She said further research was underway to try to understand more about how the amygdala and other brain regions are involved in social behavior in humans. They are also investigating how abnormalities in these brain regions may impair social behaviour in neurological and psychiatric disorders.
A lesbian MEP has won a claim for sex discrimination against her former colleagues in UKIP. Nikki Sinclaire was expelled by UKIP leader Nigel Farage for refusing to sit with the party's allies Liga Nord in the European Parliament. She claimed some members of the Italian party were "homophobic". A default judgement was made in her favour by Exeter Employment Tribunal after UKIP, which denies the allegations, failed to lodge a defence. The party blamed an administrative error and said it had filed an application for the judgement to be set aside. It hopes to have the case thrown out before a hearing on 29 December to award compensation. The default judgement, in which Mr Farage and UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom were named as respondents, said: "The claim of sexual discrimination is well founded." West Midlands MEP Miss Sinclaire, who is openly lesbian, claims she was called "queer" by Mr Bloom in a hallway in the European Parliament building in Strasbourg. The claim is firmly denied by Mr Bloom and is being investigated. Commenting on the tribunal ruling, Miss Sinclaire, who now sits as an independent, said: "I am extremely pleased with the tribunal's decision. "The treatment I received from UKIP is a sad indictment of how politics in the UK has not kept up in the 21st Century." In a statement, UKIP said the date for filling a response to Ms Sinclaire's action was "regrettably missed" due to "a simple administrative error". A party spokesman: "The respondents have now filed an application to set aside the judgement. "The respondents have always intended to defend this case vigorously and the application is accompanied by a robust response challenging almost every aspect of her case, including the tribunal's jurisdiction."
The BBC Scotland news website looks back at the most-read stories of 2010. The rankings are based on the number of page views. Here are the top 10: Mystery surrounds a man wearing a horse's head who has been captured on Google's Street View in Aberdeen. 'Horse-boy' on Google Street View The country's main supermarkets and online shops have stopped taking orders in Scotland in the run up to Christmas, because of the weather. Tesco and Sainsbury's halt online orders in Scotland Repairs to a supercar damaged when a test drive went wrong near Aberdeen are set to cost an insurance firm £300,000. Car in £300,000 insurance claim The Royal Navy's newest and largest attack submarine HMS Astute has run aground off Skye, the Ministry of Defence confirms. Royal Navy nuclear submarine grounded Solicitors for X Factor entrant Gamu Nhengu and her family are to seek a judicial review of the Home Office order expelling them from the UK. Legal bid to overturn X Factor singer Gamu's removal Comedian Tim Vine has won a prize for the funniest joke of this year's Edinburgh Fringe. Holiday pun is Fringe's funniest Actor Gerard Kelly has died at the age of 51 after suffering a brain aneurysm. Actor Gerard Kelly dies aged 51 A company selling "Anyone but England" T-shirts for this year's World Cup has rejected suggestions it is racist after police in Aberdeen visited its store. 'Anyone but England' shirt fears A 20-mile stretch of the M8 motorway has reopened after being closed for 48 hours due to snow and ice. Motorway reopens after big freeze A man who assaulted a female police officer with his penis has been fined at Aberdeen Sheriff Court. Man assaulted officer with penis
Specially trained prison officers had to be deployed to deal with a disturbance at a Kent young offenders' institute. Kent Police said about a dozen teenage inmates threatened staff at Cookham Wood, in Rochester, Kent, on Monday. The Prison Service said the incident lasted about eight hours. In 2009 a report branded conditions at Cookham Wood "seriously unsafe". Officials  said "significant improvements" had been made since. A Prison Service spokesperson said: "At 1750 yesterday [Monday] there was an incident of concerted indiscipline at HMYOI Cookham Wood. "Specially trained prison officers were called to the prison and all the prisoners were returned to their cells at 0200. "No injuries were sustained by either staff or prisoners." Cookham Wood was built in 1978, originally for young men, but was changed to meet the need for secure female accommodation at the time. It was converted to a young offenders' institute in 2007/2008. Inspectors said in 2009 too many inmates had been placed at Cookham Wood before it was ready following the facility's conversion. At the time the report was released Prison Service said it did not "wholly accept that the prison was unsafe" but an action plan had immediately been put in place.
Hundreds of mourners gathered for the funeral of a student who died after a 4x4 mounted a kerb in Glasgow. Laura Stewart, 20, was walking on North Hanover Street with her friend Mhairi Convy, 18, when they were hit by a Range Rover on 17 December. The funeral of Ms Stewart, an accounts student from Cumbernauld, was held at Our Lady and St Helen's Parish Church in her home town. About 200 people attended the ceremony to pay their respects. Outside the church floral tributes were laid, including the name "Laura" written out in red and white flowers opposite the word "sister" in purple flowers. Tributes left with the flowers included a card saying "with all our love for always, mum and dad" and another to a "beautiful" girl who was a "loving friend and sister". The order of service showed a photo of the student with the words "Courage grows strong at a wound" - the motto of the Stewart clan. Mourners wept as the white coffin with purple handles was carried out of the church to the hymn Walk With Me Oh My Lord. Father Gerald Sharkey led the procession out of the church through the snow. The body was then driven to Eastfield Cemetery in Cumbernauld for a private burial. Ms Stewart and Ms Convy, of Lennoxtown, studied at Glasgow College of Commerce. Following the crash, the two women were taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary, where they died. A 36-year-old male pedestrian and the 50-year-old male driver of the Range Rover were also treated in hospital after the crash. Strathclyde Police are investigating the deaths.
A French model who posed nude for an anti-anorexia campaign while suffering from the illness herself has died at the age of 28, her colleagues confirm. Isabelle Caro died on 17 November after being treated for an acute respiratory illness, Swiss singer Vincent Bigler told journalists. He added that he did not know the exact cause of death. Ms Caro appeared in posters for an anti-anorexia campaign in 2007, but the ads were banned in several countries. It was not clear why it took so long for her death to be made public. The anti-anorexia campaign came amid a debate among fashion circles on the use of "ultra-skinny" models on the catwalk. The AFP news agency reported her as saying at the time: "I thought this could be a chance to use my suffering to get a message across, and finally put an image on what thinness represents and the danger it leads to - which is death." The model, who was 5ft 4in tall (1.65m) at the time of the poster campaign, reportedly weighed 32kg (five stones). Ms Caro's acting instructor, Daniele Dubreuil-Prevot, told the Associated Press news agency that Ms Caro had died after returning to France from a job in Tokyo. She said family and close friends had held a funeral ceremony in Paris last month. Mr Bigler, who was a friend of Ms Caro, told Swiss media: "She was hospitalised for 15 days with acute respiratory disease and was recently also very tired, but I do not know the cause of her death."
Agathe von Trapp, eldest daughter of the Austrian family who inspired The Sound of Music, has died at the age of 97 in the US state of Maryland. She died in a hospice in the Baltimore suburb of Towson after suffering congestive heart failure in November, a long-time friend told reporters. In the hit musical she was portrayed as Liesl, singing the duet Sixteen Going on Seventeen with Rolf. While liking the film version, she felt her father came over as too strict. "She cried when she first saw it because of the way they portrayed him," said Mary Louise Kane, the friend who lived with Agathe von Trapp for half a century. "She said that if it had been about another family she would have loved it." The 1959 Rodgers-Hammerstein musical, made into a film in 1965 with Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer, tells the story of a singing family who flee the Nazis across the Austrian Alps. The original Trapp Family Singers performed in Europe and North America in the 1930s-40s with their father, Austrian naval Capt Georg Ritter von Trapp, and stepmother Maria. Four of the Singers are still alive: Maria von Trapp, 96; Rosmarie von Trapp, 81; Eleonore "Lorli" von Trapp Campbell, 79; and Johannes, 71. Johannes said his sister had been a private person who was also a talented sketch artist, the Associated Press news agency reported. She will be buried in the spring at a cemetery at the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, Vermont, he added.
A Polish judge has jailed a Swedish man for two years and eight months for plotting the theft of the "Arbeit macht frei" Auschwitz entrance sign. Anders Hoegstroem, a former neo-Nazi leader, admitted theft under a plea bargain last month and will be moved to Sweden to serve his sentence. The infamous sign was stolen in December last year and recovered in three pieces three days later. The judge in Krakow also jailed two Poles for up to two-and-a-half years. One of the pair, named as Andrzej S, apologised in court for the offence, Polish media report. The 5m (16ft) wrought-iron slogan which translates as "Work sets you free" is a potent symbol of many of the Nazi-era atrocities. During the Nazi Holocaust, 1.1 million people - most of them Jews - were murdered at Auschwitz. The sign has since been repaired although it now hangs in the Auschwitz museum and has been replaced by a replica at the entrance to the former death camp. Three other Poles were given prison terms earlier this year for the theft which was thought to have been ordered by another Swede still at large.  So far, no evidence of other individuals has come to light. Hoegstroem, 34, who was detained in Sweden in February had at first denied involvement in stealing the sign but later changed his plea. On being told the verdict, he said he accepted the court's decision.  He is now likely to be returned to Sweden in a week's time.
An official report on whether India should create the new southern state of Telangana has been submitted to the government. The government will make the report public after holding talks with major political parties on 6 January, a senior federal minister said. Andhra Pradesh, from which Telangana would be carved, saw protests for and against the new state this year. The final decision to create a new state lies with the Indian parliament. But the state assembly must pass a resolution approving the creation of Telangana. In February, the government decided to set up a committee headed by an ex-chief justice of the Supreme Court of India, BN Srikrishna, to examine the demands for the new state. Mr Srikrishna handed over his report to federal Home Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday. Mr Chidambaram said he would hold consultations with eight recognised political parties of Andhra Pradesh on 6 January after which the "report will be made public". "That is the only way in a democracy and those who respect democracy must also respect the process of democracy," Mr Chidambaram said. Fearing fresh violence in the state after the publication of the report, the government has appealed to the people of Andhra Pradesh to stay calm. Correspondents say there are deep divisions within political parties over the Telangana issue. In December last year, India's Congress party-led government promised that the new state would be formed but later said more talks were needed. Parties are split on the issue. Congress is also in power in Andhra Pradesh. The announcement prompted widespread protests in the state, and a student committed suicide in support of the formation of Telangana. Opponents of the move are unhappy that Hyderabad, home to many major information technology and pharmaceutical companies, would become Telangana's new capital.
Sri Lanka's government has decided to change the names of all state institutions still bearing the nation's former British colonial name, Ceylon. The government wants the country's modern name to be used instead. The decision comes 39 years after the country was renamed Sri Lanka. The change will be made as early as possible in 2011. Reaction has been mixed to the new year's resolution that gets rid of what some see as a vestige of colonialism. The minister of energy submitted a cabinet memo this week to change the name of the Ceylon Electricity Board, whereupon the president suggested the name Ceylon be removed entirely. The island's British colonial name, derived from an earlier Portuguese one, was dropped in 1972 when the country became a republic and Queen Elizabeth II ceased to be head of state. The adopted name, Lanka, to which an honorific "Sri" was added, is much older and is close to both the Sinhalese and Tamil names for the island. But the name Ceylon has persisted in many institutions, including the Bank of Ceylon and the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation. One ministry now has the job of ensuring that names and signboards are altered. The Ceylon Tea label, however, is unlikely to change, as the industry believes it's a brand of quality for the country's most famous export. Some will be sad at the name change. One young Sri Lankan told the BBC that the word Ceylon had historic meaning and added value to some institutions. A blogger wrote that the post-colonial name was associated with "terrorism, war and [the late Tamil Tiger leader Velupillai] Prabhakaran". But other Sri Lankans see the change as long overdue. One young man told the BBC it was high time that names across the country showed some uniformity.
Experts say they have discovered what they believe is the cause of male pattern baldness. It is not simply a lack of hair, but rather a problem with the new hair that is made. A manufacturing defect means the hair produced is so small it appears invisible to the naked eye, giving the classic bald spot or receding hairline. The US team told the Journal of Clinical Investigation the fault lies with the stem cells that make new hair. It may be possible to 'cure' male baldness by restoring the normal function of these cells, the experts hope. Ultimately, they hope to be able to develop a cream that could be applied to the scalp to help the stem cells grow normal hair. Using men undergoing hair transplants as guinea pigs, the University of Pennsylvania team compared hair follicles in bald patches and hairy areas of the scalp. Although bald areas had the same number of hair-making stem cells as normal scalp, there were fewer of a more mature type, called the progenitor cell. This difference means that hair follicles in bald patches shrink rather than disappear and the new hairs made are microscopic compared to normal hair. Dr George Cotsarelis who led the research said: "This implies that there is a problem in the activation of stem cells converting progenitor cells in bald scalp. "The fact that there are normal numbers of stem cells in bald scalp gives us hope for reactivating those stem cells." Until now it has been unclear what the exact cause of male pattern baldness is, but experts believe the male hormone testosterone is involved and baldness also tends to run in families.
Six cruise ships, including some of the world's most famous liners, have left after all being in port in Southampton at the the same time. Cunard's newest ship Queen Elizabeth and its sister Queen Victoria were there along with P&O Cruises' Arcadia. Up to 20,000 passengers arrived in or departed from the city's four cruise terminals during the course of the day. The other three ships in port were Fred Olsen's Balmoral and Black Watch, and Saga Cruises' Saga Ruby. The port's luggage handlers dealt with at least 30,000 suitcases and local businesses, taxis and shops hoped to benefit. Queen Elizabeth, which was named by the Queen in October last year, left on its maiden world cruise at about 1800 GMT. The Â£400m liner's first cruise was to the Canary Islands, after the naming ceremony. In December plans were announced for a fifth terminal to be built in Southampton. The Â£30m development will be built at the city's Western Docks and is expected to be completed by 2014. The 100,000 sq ft terminal will be designed to accommodate vessels with a 4,000-plus passenger capacity. The plans come barely two years since Associated British Ports (ABP) opened its fourth terminal in the city.
The new chief executive of Edinburgh City Council has taken up her post. Sue Bruce, 55, previously worked in the same job for Aberdeen City Council, turning round the fortunes of the ailing local authority. She replaces Tom Aitchison who retired at the end of December. Mrs Bruce said: "It's exciting to be in this role at last. A lot of work has been going on behind the scenes to help ensure a smooth transition." She added: "The council has many skilled, experienced and committed staff, and I look forward to working with them and our elected members in serving our great capital city." Jenny Dawe, Edinburgh City Council leader, said: "I'm very pleased Sue is now in position and able to start bringing her outstanding knowledge, experience and leadership to the role. "She will no doubt have a difficult, but rewarding, time ahead as we deal with budgetary and other challenges in coming months and years. "I am looking forward to working with her in the interests of the city and the people of Edinburgh." In June 2010 Mrs Bruce was the first public sector leader to receive the Prince's Ambassador in Scotland Award. Four months later she received the Scottish Business Insider Public Sector Leader of the Year Award.
A married couple have been jailed for assaulting children at former Jersey children's home Haut de la Garenne. Morag Jordan, 62, from Kirriemuir, Angus, was given a nine-month term for eight charges of assault against four children in the 1970s and 1980s. Her husband, Anthony, also 62, was sentenced to six months, for eight charges involving two boys. The sentencing, at Jersey's Royal Court, is the last stemming from the Historic Abuse Inquiry. The Jordans worked as assistant house parents at the home. During their trial, the court heard how Morag Jordan was found to have rubbed one girl's face into urine soaked sheets after she had wet the bed. She was also found to have hit residents with her hand and with a wooden shoe. Jurors heard how her husband hit children with a metal spoon, a knife or with his hand. Morag Jordan was acquitted of a further 28 counts of abuse and Anthony Jordan of four. Sentencing, the Judge Sir Christopher Pitchers said: "All children from Haut de la Garenne have said what they needed was love, care and sympathy, not cruelty and violence." But he added it was violence they received at the hands of the Jordans. The inquiry was launched by police in the island in September 2007, following allegations of abuse at the former children's home. Officers took 1,776 statements from 192 victims, identifying 151 alleged abusers. Seven people, including the Jordans, were successfully prosecuted.
The parasite which causes malaria is poor at spreading the disease if it is jet lagged, research has suggested. Edinburgh University experts gave the parasites "jet lag" by inserting them into mice whose body clocks were different to their own 24-hour cycle. Some of the mice were awake in the daytime and others active at night. They found malaria was only half as effective at causing infection and spreading disease in mice which had a different routine to the parasite. The study gives scientists a greater understanding of when malaria parasites are at their most harmful and when they are vulnerable. The scientists said the findings may also be a useful aid in developing treatments to tackle the disease. Dr Sarah Reece, of Edinburgh University's school of biological sciences, who led the research, said: "For this study, we effectively gave the parasites jet lag. "Our findings suggest that parasites have developed some clever tricks to get their timing right and cause an infection. "This is rare evidence that organisms whose body clock is in sync with their environment have a better chance of survival. "The more we know about how malaria parasites work, the better equipped we will be to tackle them effectively." Internal body clocks, found in most living things, are determined by patterns of daylight and darkness and govern a range of functions such as sleep cycles, blood pressure, and physical strength. Malaria, which is spread by the bite of the mosquito, kills one million people each year in sub-Saharan Africa. It affects hundreds of millions more. The research was carried out at the universities of Edinburgh and Oxford. The study was funded by the Wellcome Trust and the Royal Society and published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B.
A punter has won £272,529.60 from a £2.50 stake by correctly predicting the results of nine football matches. Bookmakers Ladbrokes said it was its highest ever pay-out on a multiple bet placed online for the stake size. The Berkshire punter, who declined to be identified, predicted results in nine games on Wednesday, including Wolves' shock win over Chelsea. The mystery gambler said he was "over the moon" and intended to use the money to start his own firm. "It's a life changing sum of money for me," he added. "Everything changes from here on in and one of my first moves will be to start my own business." Alex Donohue, from Ladbrokes, said the punter had achieved one of the "hardest feats in the industry". He added: "It was his first bet of 2011 so it's been a perfect start to the year for him. "We have had bigger pay-outs for other bets but not with just one small stake of £2.50. "We expect the champagne corks are popping in Berkshire as he celebrates one of the biggest football wins of all time." The nine bets also included predicting Arsenal would draw with Manchester City and Blackburn Rovers would beat Liverpool. His final game rested on a draw in the Spanish cup match between Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao with the equalising goal being scored by Bilbao five minutes from time. Ladbrokes said the majority of the money would be transferred into the man's bank account. But the punter said he also wants to collect a substantial amount of the winnings from branches.
Marina Diamandis has said that she feels her career so far has been "more like a failure than a success". Speaking to Australian radio station Undercover FM she said: "I haven't done anything I wanted to." She admitted she'd yet to achieve her goal of being "one of the best artists of her generation," adding that she was angry that she's "not bigger". The Welsh singer, who was second on BBC's Sound of 2010 list, also said her US label hadn't backed her in America. "The label haven't really promoted me I'm afraid," she said in the interview. "It's very difficult." "It's not really their fault," she added. "The pop landscape in the US is so difficult to penetrate as you go into this dance-world now," she explained. "Dance music was quite underground for a long time in America but now because of (Lady) Gaga and people like that it has been brought back," she continued. "You need to be in that pumping beats area and I'm certainly not." The singer released her debut album The Family Jewels last year. Having cancelled a scheduled tour of the US this month she said she has now begun work on her forthcoming second album.
Communist country Laos is experimenting with capitalism by opening a new stock market. The Lao Securities Exchange opened for business on Tuesday with trading in just two companies. The country, sandwiched between Vietnam and Thailand, is one of the world's poorest nations. It is hoped that the stock exchange will help raise $8bn (Â£5.1bn) in equity and bond sales to fund investment in the country. The Laos exchange is initially offering shares in two state-owned companies, Electricite du Laos Generation company and Banque Pour Le Commerce Exterieur Lao. The volume of the first day's trading was thin, about 2.14bn kip ($265,000; Â£170,000). The communist country is hoping to follow the example of neighbouring China which has taken great strides in opening up its economy, albeit in a controlled way, greatly enriching itself and its citizens. "I hope investors will support the endeavours of our stock exchange," said Dethphouvang Moularat, the head of the exchange (LSX), after a small opening ceremony. Laos is aiming to join the World Trade Organization and become more integrated in the global economy. The BBC's reporter in the region, Vaudine England, says that the stock exchange opening is aimed at foreign investors. Our correspondent says the government in Laos has been trying to attract foreign investment since the 1990s. The problem for the government, she adds, is that the majority of the population is engaged in subsistence agriculture, so there is very little infrastructure in the country. Despite the attractions for foreign investors in this resource-rich country, outside participation in the bourse will be limited at first. The funding for the set-up of the exchange has come from South Korea, which has invested $9.8m, or 49% of the capital, for the venture. The Bank of Laos, the country's central bank, has invested the rest.
Sainsbury's has reported its "best ever" Christmas sales despite what it called the "challenging weather conditions". Like-for-like sales excluding petrol, which strip out the effect of sales from new stores, rose by 3.6% in the 14 weeks to 8 January from a year earlier. The UK's third-largest supermarket chain said non-food sales had grown particularly strongly. The group said it had created nearly 6,000 new jobs over the period. Earlier this week, it said it aimed to create 20,000 jobs over the next three years. "Our strategy of providing universal customer appeal through great food at fair prices has helped Sainsbury's to deliver its best-ever Christmas," said the group's chief executive Justin King. He added that Sainsbury's had increased its market share slightly to 16.6%. Transactions made during the week of Christmas hit an "all-time high" of 24.5 million, the group said. It also reported "record" online orders for groceries and said it had seen "strong growth" in sales of home and electrical wares. Sales of lingerie and clothing accessories jumped by 45%, it added. "Additional promotion of its higher margin products, along with the weather conditions tempting shoppers to buy more in fewer trips, played into the company's hands such that its performance could yet prove to be the best of the big four [supermarkets]," said Richard Hunter at broker Hargreaves Lansdown. Research released earlier this week from data provider Kantar Worldpanel, formerly TNS Worldpanel, indicated  that Sainsbury's was the only one of the UK's big four supermarkets to increase its market share in the three months preceding Christmas.
Indian budget airline IndiGo has signed a deal to buy 180 Airbus aircraft. The agreement is thought to be the biggest single order in commercial aviation history. Shares in European aerospace group EADS, which makes the Airbus, rose almost 4% on Wednesday after the $15.6bn (12bn euro; Â£13bn) deal was announced. IndiGo is now considering its options on how to raise the necessary capital to purchase the aircraft. The order consists of 150 A320neo's and 30 A320s, making IndiGo a launch customer for the more fuel-efficient A320neo, while the choice of engine will be announced at a later date. IndiGo is jointly-owned by Rakesh Gangwal, a former US Airways executive, and InterGlobe Industries. After less than five years, it has become the third-largest domestic carrier in India. The company is now considering its financial options, including an initial public offering (IPO) to finance the deal with Airbus. "You can't run a business without considering various options, with this IPO being one of them, but it's too early for me to comment," Indigo executive Aditya Ghosh told the Reuters news agency. From September 2011, IndiGo intends to start international flights to the Middle East and South-east Asia. "There is a fundamental demand for air travel and more so for low-fare air travel," Mr Ghosh said. "If we take a longer term view, we definitely see passenger traffic and demand increasing,"  he added. IndiGo's main rival, SpiceJet, agreed to purchase 30 Nextgen aircraft from Canada's Bombardier for $915m in November 2010. India has only 400 commercial planes, whereas China, with a comparable population, has 2,600 aircraft.
New rules on the sale of alcohol in Turkey have raised fears its food and entertainment industries may be harmed. The curbs ban alcohol from sports advertising and events for young people, and sales are limited to licensed shops and restaurants. Critics say it will become harder for catering companies to organise wedding parties and similar gatherings. A ruling party official said the rules were put in place to protect young adults from alcoholism. An opposition spokesman said that an "oppressive mentality" was seeking to control Turkey, suggesting that the ruling AKP party was targeting secular lifestyles. But Mehmet Kucuk, whose Tobacco and Alcohol Market Regulatory Board implemented the changes, insisted there was "no ideological dimension to the issue". One small wine-maker told the BBC that, under the new regulations, he could no longer promote his wines via the internet, could not recommend wines to go with certain food, nor hold wine-tasting events. For Turkey's top basketball team - which bears the same title as the beer-maker Efes Pilsen - the changes mean finding a new name. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has publicly voiced his disapproval of alcohol consumption. Last year he said he could not understand why people drank wine when they could just eat the grapes. However, the BBC's Jonathan Head in Istanbul says a large part of Turkish society is secular, and considers the right to drink alcohol an important freedom. Consumption of alcohol, although relatively low compared with most of Europe, has been steadily increasing.
T-Mobile has clarified its policy on mobile data use after anger from its customers. The company initially said that it would slash the amount of data all of its customers could use to 500 MB. For Android handset owners, previously allocated 3GB per month, the drop would have been more than 80%. But the company has now said that the changes would be introduced from 1 February, "to new and upgrading customers only". "There will be no change to the data packages for existing customers for the duration of their contract and we apologise for any confusion caused," said Lysa Hard, VP for T-Mobile UK. On 10 January, the firm said that it would reduce the monthly allowance for most people from 1GB (gigabyte) to 500 MB (megabytes). The company said the move was necessary to provide "a better experience for all our customers who use internet on their phone". But many were not happy. "Given that data allowance was a driving force in choosing T-Mobile over competitors last year, this is a huge blow," disgruntled T-Mobile customer Steve Anderson told the BBC after the policy was announced. The caps followed similar moves by mobile operators including Vodafone and O2 in the summer of 2010. Having initially followed suit, Three decided to scrap its data caps completely in December 2010.
Officials say 102 pilgrims have been killed in a stampede at a religious festival in the southern Indian state of Kerala. At least 44 more have been injured in the crush, which was reportedly triggered by a road accident. The pilgrims were returning from the Hindu shrine of Sabarimala, which is in a remote, mountainous, densely-forested area. Kerala Governor R S Gavai has said he is "deeply shocked and saddened". "We have recovered 102 bodies. The rescue work is almost over," local police official Sanjay Kumar told the Associated Press news agency. The stampede happened at Pulmedu, near the town of Vandiperiyar in Idukki district, Indian media reported. Hundreds of thousands of pilgrims had gathered at the hill shrine on Friday, the last day of an annual festival. The festival runs for two months and attracts millions of visitors every year. Reports differed as to exactly how the deadly crush was triggered. The Indian PTI news agency said a jeep carrying pilgrims had driven into a crowd returning from the shrine, starting a panic. However, the Times of India reported that the incident happened when the jeep broke down and overturned as pilgrims tried to move it. It crushed a number of people and caused others to stumble, which then triggered the stampede, the report said. Correspondents say deadly stampedes are not unusual at Indian temples, where huge crowds gather in small areas with few safety measures or crowd controls. A similar tragedy happened at Sabaramila in 1999, when more than 50 people died in a stampede after a landslide on a crowded hillside.
A rare folio of Shakespeare's work is being displayed at Durham University. The 1623 first edition of the bard's work was stolen from the university in 1998. Its bindings and some pages were removed to try to disguise its origins. Visitors to the exhibition at the new Wolfson Gallery at the university can view it in its current condition. It will be conserved to protect it from damage after the exhibition. It is one of the earliest examples of a gathering together of the playwright's work. Raymond Scott, 53, of Wingate, County Durham, was cleared of stealing the book, but found guilty of handling stolen goods and jailed for eight years in July. He was also convicted of taking stolen goods abroad. The folio, which has an estimated value of £1.5m, will form the centrepiece of the Treasures of Durham University in the refurbished Wolfson Gallery. The new gallery has undergone a £2.3m refurbishment, funded in part by a £500,000 donation from the Wolfson Foundation - a charity that awards grants to support excellence in the fields of science and medicine, health, education and the arts and humanities. Chancellor of Durham University, Bill Bryson, is the guest curator of this first exhibition, which covers topics including culture, science, faith and religion, reform and rule, and local history. The treasures have been drawn from collections across the university. The Shakespeare First Folio will be on display until 6 March.
New buildings in Middlesbrough have been added to a list which aims to recognise the town's heritage. The town has just a single Grade l listed building - Acklam Hall - and more than 100 Grade ll and II* listed buildings. The list aims to recognise those buildings of particular local interest which do not qualify for statutory protection. A further 66 suggested entries arose from consultation with the public. The list has now been expanded to 92 buildings following a review by Middlesbrough council. New additions to the draft local list include Middlesbrough Dock, originally designed by William Cubitt, The Navigation Inn, Cargo Fleet Lane, the Evening Gazette offices on Borough Road, Psyche, Linthorpe Road, The Green Tree pub, Gilkes Street and King Edward's Square, Teesside University. Members of the public are invited to comment on the updated draft local list as part of a consultation which concludes on 19 February. The council said that while local listing would not offer the protection afforded to listed buildings, it would ensure locally important buildings, and their special qualities, were recognised within the planning system. Councillor Charlie Rooney, Middlesbrough Council's executive member for regeneration and economic development, said: "For a relatively young town, Middlesbrough has a great number of buildings of interest. "The first local list was a great talking point. I'm sure this latest round of consultation will prompt people to have another close look at the buildings around them - and I have no doubt there will be some interesting new suggestions." The revised local list can be found on the Middlesbrough Council website.
The PSNI are investigating four attacks on three Orange halls in County Tyrone. Windows at Strawletterdallon Orange Hall outside Newtownstewart were smashed on Friday. Early on Sunday, it was reported that an oil drum had been placed against a door of the same hall and set alight causing damage to the door and wall. Dergina Orange Hall outside Aughnacloy had its windows smashed early on Saturday. Paint was also thrown over the door of the hall, which was built in 2009. A few miles away, graffiti was painted on Mullnahunch Orange Hall. The secretary of the Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland, Drew Nelson, said it was very fortunate the hall in Strawletterdallon was not destroyed. "A passing motorist saw smoke coming from the hall around 9.00am and raised the alarm. Without his quick thinking, the hall would probably have been burned to the ground," he said. "A tyre was placed at the emergency exit at the rear of the building and set on fire. Oil had been poured over the tyre to accelerate the fire. We are very fortunate the hall was not destroyed." Mr Nelson said the order was "very concerned" about the apparent upsurge in attacks in Tyrone. "It seems too much of a coincidence that we have had three halls attacked in the county over the weekend. "We would also appeal to the police to devote more resources to the detection of those responsible for these attacks." Ulster Unionist leader and Fermanagh and South Tyrone MLA Tom Elliott said that "mindless thugs intent on creating community division" were responsible for the attack on Dergina Orange Hall.
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) is to spend £200m on closing down the axed project to build nine new Nimrod spy planes, it has emerged. The Nimrod MRA4 surveillance and reconnaissance planes were being built at BAE Systems sites in Stockport, Lancashire and East Yorkshire. The project was ditched by the government in October's Defence Review. The money was to be used on finishing the planes, but will now be spent on ending the contract with BAE. A source said the sum included paying compensation to BAE Systems. The MoD and BAE signed a contract in 1996 to build 21 planes. This was reduced to 12 and later nine. All were due to be handed over to the RAF by 2012, but the project was scrapped in an effort to save money. Axing the project means large job losses, as about 1,000 people were working on the project at Woodford, near Stockport, and another 200 at Brough, East Yorkshire. A further 500 in Warton, Lancashire, were due to support the planes in service. An spokesperson for the MoD said: "Ministers and service chiefs have made clear that the decision in October's Strategic Defence and Security Review not to bring the Nimrod MRA4 into service was difficult, but it will not be reversed and the dismantling process is under way. "The severe financial pressures and the urgent need to bring the defence programme into balance meant we could not retain all existing programmes. "We will continue joint maritime patrol activities with our allies and will ensure the integrity of UK waters by utilising a range of other military assets, including Type 23 frigates, Merlin anti-submarine warfare helicopters and Hercules C-130 aircraft."
China attracted a record level of inward investment in 2010, sharply recovering from the previous year. The country attracted $106bn of foreign direct investment - which excludes investments in financial instruments such as shares - up 17.4% from 2009, according to the Ministry of Commerce. That was enough to more than reverse the 2.3% fall seen during the previous year caused by the global recession. Over a fifth of the money went into China's property sector. The Chinese authorities have been trying - with limited success - to head off a perceived bubble in property prices. "The improvement in the investment environment has become a new driving force of China's [foreign direct investment]," said Yao Jian, a ministry spokesman. He said that investment was particularly strong in China's poorer and less developed interior and western regions, where the cost of labour is much lower. By Chris HoggBBC News, Shanghai China lends more than World Bank Over half of the investment came from Hong Kong, while nearby countries such as Taiwan, Singapore, Japan and Korea were also major sources of capital. As was the case in 2009, December proved particularly strong, seeing $14bn of inflows - a record for a single month. Meanwhile, the ministry also reported a big rise in China's investment in the rest of the world. Outward investment rose 36.3% in 2010 - although at $59bn, the level remains only slightly more than half of the total for inward investment into China. Mergers and acquisitions accounted for about 40% of the total, as Chinese companies chose to buy up ready-made businesses as well as investing in new projects and start-ups, or providing loans.
Health bosses on Teesside have said a controversial super-hospital may still be built, despite public funding being axed by the coalition government. Tax-payer support for the £460m 660-bed hospital at Wynyard Park, near Stockton, was axed by Treasury Chief Secretary Danny Alexander last year. But North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust plans to approach the private sector for funding. Opponents say existing hospitals in Hartlepool and Stockton should stay. The Teesside scheme, and 12 others nationwide, were scrapped in June 2010 as part of measures by the coalition government to save £2bn. But now trust bosses say they want to press ahead with a smaller scale project, which would cost about £300m. Chief executive Alan Foster said the site would have smaller patient rooms, wards and operating theatres. He said: "Funding would come from the banks in the UK and abroad and we have also been talking to the European Investment Bank. "There is still a lot of work to do and we will be looking to get the best financial option for the trust going forward." Mr Foster said a new hospital would be more cost-effective than refurbishing the existing University Hospital of Hartlepool and North Tees Hospital in Stockton. But Keith Fisher, from the Save Our Hospital campaign in Hartlepool, said: "The reality has always been that people in Hartlepool and south east Durham do not want a new hospital in Wynyard. "I find it hard to believe that the two existing hospitals cannot be maintained for the amount of money they are proposing to spend on a new build." The trust is expected to discuss possible new funding options at a meeting later this month.
A memorial plaque has been unveiled in memory of 13 black youngsters who died in a fire at a flat in south-east London 30 years ago. What is the legacy of the New Cross fire? The victims, aged between 14 and 22, were killed in the blaze as they attended a 16th birthday party at 439 New Cross Road, Deptford, in 1981. London Fire Brigade also held a guard of honour for the young victims. Up to 300 people listened to a poetry reading and observed a two-minute silence as the plaque was unveiled. On the night of the fire more than 100 guests had gathered at the flat for Yvonne Ruddock's birthday party. She was among those who died in the blaze. In addition to the 13 youngsters who were killed in the fire Anthony Burbeck, who was at the party, died two years later. Many people believe Antony took his own life as a result of what he saw that night and losing several of his friends and the plaque refers to 14 deaths, including his. The original inquest, which began within months of the incident, returned open verdicts. The investigation into the fire was reopened in 1997, following lobbying by members of the victims' families, and a second inquest was ordered in 2002. That inquest also recorded an open verdict in 2004.
A Dublin restaurant has had to pull rare and medium-rare burgers from its menu after it was threatened with legal action. Jo'burger in Rathmines has been warned by the Irish Health Service Executive (HSE) to serve only well-done burgers or prove they can serve undercooked meat without the risk of contamination like E.coli. The restaurant received a written warning in January that serving rare or medium rare burgers could prove a risk to public health. Restaurant owner Joe Macken said rare and medium rare burgers had been pulled from the menu, although he, personally, believed it was an issue about consumer choice. Mr Macken said he had been warned when the restaurant opened about three years ago. As a result, he put a disclaimer on his menu, telling customers: "We will serve your burger as you request it, rare to well-done. "Rare and medium-rare burgers are undercooked. Note: eating of undercooked or raw meat may lead to food borne illness." He said an average of one in four burgers served in his city restaurant was ordered rare or medium-rare. His argument is that he has faith in the abattoir that supplies him. They deliver the meat vacuum packed and the last thing they want is an E.coli outbreak, he said. Mr Macken said he had now referred the HSE's written warning to a barrister. "We are complying with the order but we have referred it," he said.
An Indonesian former tax official has been jailed for seven years for causing millions of dollars in state losses. Gayus Tambunan was found guilty on four counts of corruption - including bribing his way out of bribery charges. The case has gripped the nation as during the trial, the defendant managed to bribe his way out of jail dozens of times, including for overseas trips. It has opened a window on government corruption, and damaged the president's reputation as an anti-graft reformer. During the trial, Tambunan confessed to having helped powerful firms evade taxes, paying prosecutors and police officials, and relieving his stress by leaving his jail cell to watch an international tennis tournament in Bali. He also admitted to having flown to Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Macau using a forged passport while supposedly in detention. In his attempt to avoid a heavy sentence, Tambunan offered to be made a special advisor to the nation's graft busters to help them catch not only the "small fish, but also the sharks and the whales" in the corrupt system. He promised Indonesia would be "clean" within two years. The judges did not consider this offer a factor, but did give him a lighter sentence than the 20 years demanded by prosecutors. The case has embarrassed Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who came to power on an anti-corruption platform.
Media in Mexico say a post on the social networking site Facebook helped lead police to the main suspect in the shooting of the Paraguayan footballer Salvador Cabanas. Police knew that the suspect, Jose Jorge Balderas Garza, was in a relationship with a Colombian model. Reports say when a Facebook profile in her name listed a Mexico City area as her location, officers moved in. Mr Balderas denies he carried out the shooting. He blames one of his associates for the attack last January on Cabanas, who played for Paraguay and Mexico's Club America. The football star was shot in the head in the bathroom of a bar in Mexico City on 25 January last year. He survived, but a bullet remains lodged in his head. Police also accuse Mr Balderas of running a drug-trafficking ring. Officers say that during their inquiries about Mr Balderas, they became aware of his romantic link to the Colombian model and participant in the Miss Antioquia 2008 competition, Juliana Sossa. A profile page in Ms Sossa's name on Facebook gave her current location as Lomas de Chapultepec, Mexico City. On Tuesday, police moved into the area and found Ms Sossa, 25, and Mr Balderas in the house they shared. They arrested the couple, along with five other suspects.
The Irish High Court will decide if a Briton can be extradited to France for questioning over the murder of a film-maker. Former journalist, Ian Bailey, 53, is wanted by authorities in Paris over the killing of Sophie Toscan du Plantier, 39, who was beaten to death in west Cork in 1996. Mr Bailey was arrested twice by gardai in connection with the murder investigation but he was never charged. He denies any involvement in her death. Ms Toscan du Plantier was found dead outside her holiday home at Toormore, near Schull, two days before Christmas 1996. Under French law, authorities can investigate the suspicious death of a citizen abroad but cannot compel witnesses to go to Paris for questioning. Investigating magistrate Patrick Gachon was appointed by officials in Paris to conduct an inquiry into Ms Toscan du Plantier's violent death after the Director of Public Prosecutions in Ireland announced nobody would be charged. A European arrest warrant was issued for Bailey. During a two-day hearing in December 2010 barrister Martin Giblin, senior counsel for Mr Bailey, argued there has been no new evidence against him to support an extradition. He also maintained the application was an insult to the Irish state and the DPP, who has repeatedly directed that no prosecution be taken. Mr Justice Michael Peart will deliver his judgment on Friday morning. Manchester-born Mr Bailey, a recent law graduate, lives in Schull with his partner Jules Thomas. He worked as a journalist in Gloucester and Cheltenham before moving to Ireland in 1991.
A Wiltshire village that was deserted after being taken over by troops for training during the Second World War is being remembered at a special event. People living in Imber, on Salisbury Plain, were evacuated in December 1943 and have never been allowed to return. Fifty years ago, thousands of people marched into the village to protest at its continued use by the Army. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) said the village still plays a vital role in training troops for operations. The event, at West Lavington Village Hall on Saturday, will be a day of celebration involving storytelling and music. Organisers said they wanted people to remember the "ghost village". Ruth Underwood, whose father Austin took part in the protest in 1961, said people living in Imber had been self-sufficient. "It was very far away from Warminster, the nearest town, so it was very remote and yet because of that remoteness it was very attractive to the Army," she said. A spokesman for the MoD said: "Imber village is an integral part of military training facilities on Salisbury Plain and plays a vital part in training troops for operations in Afghanistan. "The MoD has maintained buildings within the village - including the medieval church - and also enhanced the site with additional training buildings. "We allow people access to the village as often as we can, given Imber's important and ongoing role as an active military training feature."
Actress Zsa Zsa Gabor has been allowed home from hospital, eight days after having her right leg amputated, her spokesman has said. Gabor's release from the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles has come more than a week earlier than expected and doctors are pleased with her progress, added John Blanchette. The 93-year-old star of 1950s films Moulin Rouge and Lili had her leg amputated   because gangrene developed after a hip replacement operation in July. Mr Blanchette said Gabor's husband, Frederic Prinz von Anhalt, had said his wife was now "feisty, yelling at nurses and at him. Everything is back to normal". Gabor was admitted to hospital on 2 January after attempts to save her leg with antibiotics were unsuccessful. The star had been admitted to hospital a number of times since breaking her hip in July. After the hip replacement surgery, she went on to develop swelling in her legs and blood clots throughout her body. She was in a critical condition and had asked for a priest during a trip to the hospital in August, but she recovered and was sent home. She was readmitted to hospital in the new year because a wound in her right leg had grown and "wasn't healing any more", Mr Blanchette had said. Gabor had reportedly been bedridden for months. The veteran actress was partially paralysed in a car accident in 2002 and suffered a stroke in 2005, after which she used a wheelchair. Gabor starred in the films Moulin Rouge, Touch of Evil and Queen of Outer Space, among others.
Officials in Brazil say more than 800 people are now known to have died in floods and landslides in the south-east of the country this month. More than 400 people are still missing after torrential rain caused whole hillsides to collapse. The Brazilian government has said it will set up an early warning system to alert communities of impending danger. The flooding is considered the worst natural disaster Brazil has ever experienced. According to figures compiled by the newspaper O Globo, about third of all victims were children and adolescents. The youngest fatality was a five-day-old baby buried in a mudslide in Nova Friburgo, the worst affected town with 324 dead. Continuing danger The number of missing has been declining as forensic experts identify more bodies, but rescue workers fear the full extent of the disaster is not yet known, with some remote communities still only reachable by helicopter. Emergency workers say their priority is to make sure no new deaths occur. They are warning of the risks of contaminated water. Three people are known to have contracted leptospirosis, an infectious bacterial disease, which is caused by exposure to water contaminated with rats' urine. In Teresopolis, doctors have been administering thousands of tetanus vaccines. In Sao Jose do Vale, workers were erecting more than a hundred tents sent from the UK to house those whose homes were swept away or flooded. Volunteers in Rio de Janeiro held an adoption fair in the hope of re-homing some of the 5,000 animals left without owners as a result of the disaster. The government has allocated $240m (Â£150m) in emergency reconstruction money for the area.
The man accused of the Arizona shooting attack that killed six people and wounded 13, including a US congresswoman, has pleaded not guilty to three attempted murder charges. Jared Loughner, 22, entered the pleas over the attempted assassination of Representative Gabrielle Giffords and two aides. State charges in the six deaths and other injuries are expected to follow. Ms Giffords, who was shot in the head, is at a rehabilitation centre in Texas. Mr Loughner, who has been in jail since the attack, arrived amid high security for his arraignment hearing. Wearing glasses and an orange prison jumpsuit, Mr Loughner sat quietly through the whole hearing, smiling broadly, the Associated Press reported. 'Remarkable progress' The 8 January shooting occurred at a meeting Ms Giffords, a Democrat, was holding for constituents at a supermarket in Tucson, Arizona. Among the dead were a nine-year-old girl and federal judge John Roll. Federal prosecutors are weighing whether Mr Loughner can be charged with a federal crime over his death. Prosecutors have said Mr Loughner, who had been rejected by the US military due to drug use and suspended from a college amid concerns about his mental health, targeted Ms Giffords for assassination. Ms Giffords has made what doctors call remarkable progress, and is undergoing a course of intensive rehabilitation at Memorial Hermann Rehabilitation Hospital in Houston, where her husband Mark Kelly works as a Nasa astronaut. Mr Loughner is represented by Judy Clarke, a prominent defence lawyer who represented an infamous parcel bomber and the man convicted of setting a bomb at the 1996 Olympic games in Atlanta. She is known as a fierce opponent of capital punishment.
A US engineer who sold military secrets to China has been sentenced to 32 years in prison. Indian-born Noshir Gowadia, 66, had helped to design the propulsion system for the B-2 bomber. A court in Hawaii found him guilty in August of passing on information which helped China to design a stealth cruise missile. Prosecutors had hoped for a life sentence but said 32 years was "in many ways appropriate". Gowadia was accused of travelling to China between 2003 and 2005 while designing the missile. He was said to have been paid $110,000 (Â£69,000) - money that was used to pay off a mortgage on a luxury home on the island of Maui. His defence had argued that he only provided information which was unclassified and freely available. But Chief US District Judge Susan Oki Mollway said Gowadia "broke his oath of loyalty" to the US. "He was found guilty of marketing valuable technology to foreign countries for personal gain," she told reporters. Assistant US Attorney Ken Sorenson said he was "a little disappointed" that a life sentence was not given. "But 32 years is stiff and in many ways an appropriate sentence for him," he said. "We're confident the message is sent that when you compromise US national security, when you disclose national defence secrets, when you profit by US national defence information, that you will be punished, you will be pursued, you will be convicted." Gowardia's family said the defence intended to appeal against the sentence. "My father would never, ever do anything to intentionally hurt this country," the Associated Press news agency quoted his son Ashton as saying. "We hope the convictions will be overturned and he'll be able to go home."
Dr Liam Fox went to the aid of a pregnant mother in difficulty during a flight, it has emerged. The defence secretary, who was a GP before entering politics, answered a call from the pilot for anyone with medical knowledge to come forward. He assisted the woman on the flight from Istanbul to London until she was met by paramedics at the airport. A spokesman for Dr Fox said it was the third time in four years he had been called into action in such a way. Dr Fox was returning to London after a meeting with Turkish military and defence officials on Monday when the incident occurred about halfway through the four-and-a-half hour flight. The defence secretary was able to make the woman comfortable for the remainder of the journey, his spokesman told the BBC, and she did not suffer any serious distress. "Of course being a former doctor, he feels obliged to help. Any doctor would do," the spokesman added. He confirmed this was not the first time that Dr Fox's medical experience had been called upon: "I think it is the third time over the last four years this has happened." But he said he was not sure whether the woman was aware of her helper's identity and his other responsibilities. Dr Fox worked as a civilian medical officer in the armed forces and is a member of the Royal College of General Practitioners.
Writer Shane Meadows is to make a one-off Christmas special to follow on from the This is England film and TV series. Set two years later on from This is England '86, the two-hour drama will deal with the aftermath of the events in that four-part series. "Just when I think my love affair with This is England is over, it pulls me back in," Meadows said. Channel 4 has also confirmed that This is England '90, set in the rave era, is currently in development. Picking up the action at Christmas 1988, the story will focus on the relationship between the Lol and Woody characters. Meadows told the Stage newspaper that while Channel 4 "would have happily had me go straight to 1990, I felt I needed something in-between." Channel 4's head of drama Camilla Campbell said: "We're beyond excited that Shane, Warp Films and the cast have agreed to return with this feature length drama. "It is set to pull together a lot of story threads from '86, leaving the way clear for a new series of This is England '90." This is England '86, which screened on Channel 4 last September, was named best TV drama at the South Bank Awards on Tuesday. The original film, written and directed by Meadows in 2006, told of an impressionable young boy who becomes involved with a gang of skinheads.
University Campus Suffolk (UCS) has opened a new six-storey building on the Ipswich Waterfront. The £21m James Hehir Building will house specialist science laboratories and a new student union bar. "We have a sensational building which is very distinctive and which complements the £40m waterfront building which is very close by," said Professor Mike Saks, provost of UCS. "It will be very attractive to students - everything is state of the art." New courses using the new facilities will be in place for next year and will include stem cell research in partnership with American firm Geron Corp. "We're working with them on one particular cell therapy, which is going to address, we hope, osteoarthritis which is a huge problem in the UK and worldwide," said Professor Brendon Noble, head of school of health, science and social care at UCS. "Osteoarthritis happens to a huge proportion of us and is very debilitating. "It's a hugely expensive issue worldwide so the company, the health service and the government know we've got to look at ways to cost cut and have new medicines for that." The first intake of students is already using the facility, which will be officially opened on 30 March. Professor Saks paid tribute to James Hehir, the late former chief executive of Ipswich Borough Council. "Jim Hehir had such a fantastic reputation in terms of the regeneration of Ipswich and in terms of being a real human being, we thought in many ways he encapsulated the spirit of University Campus Suffolk and our very high aspirations for the future," he said.
JD Salinger was a fan of tennis player Tim Henman and enjoyed eating burgers, previously unseen letters written by the Catcher in the Rye author show. Despite his reputation as a literary recluse, the collection - at the University of East Anglia - shows he also enjoyed trips to Niagara Falls. It consists of 50 letters and four postcards written to the late Donald Hartog, from London, from 1986 to 2002. They have been made public to mark the first anniversary of Salinger's death. He died on 27 January last year at the age of 91. In the letters, the American author said he hoped that when Henman faced German opponents at Wimbledon he "knocked 'em all down". He also praised Henman's mother and father, saying they were not archetypal "professional tennis parents". And he told his friend Mr Hartog he preferred Burger King burgers to those from other chains because they were  flame-grilled, making them "better than just edible". Mr Hartog's daughter Frances, who donated the collection to the university, said: "There is tremendous warmth and affection towards my father and this is so different to the man Salinger is often portrayed as. "The letters have been sitting in a drawer but hopefully, by being in the archive, they will show people another side to him." Mr Hartog and Salinger met as teenagers in Vienna where they had been sent by their families to learn German. "I think there was this extra bond between my father and Salinger because they met before the war," Ms Hartog added. In March last year, another collection of unseen letters written by Salinger - to friend and former neighbour E Michael Mitchell - was displayed at a New York museum.
A North Wales Police officer has failed to overturn a conviction for driving at almost 100mph in a 50mph zone. Sgt Craig Nicholas Jones argued he was wrongly convicted by magistrates as the lights in two 50mph signs on the A55 at Old Colwyn, Conwy, had failed. But judges at the High Court in London said the signs would have been visible in the unmarked police car's headlights. The 90-day driving ban imposed by magistrates has now been re-instated. Sgt Jones was on duty when his vehicle was clocked doing 98mph on the road between Llanddulas and Colwyn Bay on 1 April, 2009, the court heard. Sgt Jones's lawyers argued that as the internal lights on the two 50mph signs were not working, he should have been cleared at magistrates' court. His lawyers said there was a "clear and settled policy" at the time not to enforce the speed limit while the signs were not working as they should. But Mr Justice Charles and Mr Justice Wyn Williams said that "right thinking people" would have concluded that a decision not to prosecute Sgt Jones would have brought the administration of justice "into disrepute". The two judges added that despite the broken lights, the signs were "correctly positioned and complied completely with the relevant regulations". Dismissing the police officer's appeal, the judges said the signs were "clearly visible" in the car's headlights and it was established law that "minor breaches of the regulations did not impact on the legality and enforceability of the speed limit". Sgt Jones had his appeal dismissed. The 90-day driving ban originally imposed at Llandudno Magistrates' Court in December 2009, but suspended pending the High Court appeal, will now take effect on 31 January.
An undercover police operation targeting drug dealers in Swansea has seen 26 people jailed for a total of more than 50 years. Police targeted the supply of crack cocaine and heroin in the city centre. Operation Avignon was launched partly in response to a VBS.TV documentary called Swansea Love Story which showed addicts injecting themselves in public. The Swansea Crown Court sentencing followed undercover offices targeting street dealing in the city centre. Police said they were determined to disrupt the supply of class A, B and C drugs with a particular emphasis on heroin and crack cocaine. It was partly in response to the number of drug deaths and overdoses in the area. It was also motivated by the amount of discarded needles and other drugs paraphernalia found in the city. Officers also said they wanted to tackle the image of Swansea portrayed in the film which followed the everyday lives of addicts. During sentencing, Judge Peter Heywood said: "Heroin leads to a life of misery and degradation, it's a downward spiral for those who take it. "The police very properly had concerns about the escalating problem of heroin use in the city. "It was becoming readily available and easy to get hold of. "It's almost at endemic levels in south Wales." Supt Phil Davies of South Wales Police said the sentences reflected "the concerns that society has in respect of Class A drugs" and "in particular heroin supply within Swansea and the impact it has upon the the community". "I also hope that these sentences will provide a focus for reflection upon the need to seek harm reduction advice for those who are addicted to this drug and a stark reminder of the likely consequences to those who continue supplying class A drugs within our community."
Pop group Blue will represent the UK in the 2011 Eurovision Song Contest, it has been announced. The group, best known for hits such as One Love and All Rise, will sing their new single I Can for the competition in Dusseldorf, Germany. In 2009, Blue reunited for a series of gigs, four years after disbanding. Band member Simon Webbe said: "I've always wanted to represent my country, so this is a truly exciting experience for Blue." The group formed in 2000 and since then have sold more than 13 million records, won two Brit Awards and had three number one singles. Duncan James said the band are celebrating their 10th year together and thought participating in the annual contest seemed "a great way to mark the occasion". A one-hour documentary, showing Blue's preparation for the Eurovision Song Contest, will be broadcast on BBC One in April. It will feature them recording the single, travelling to Europe to promote the entry, and receiving advice from fellow artists in the music business. BBC head of entertainment and events Katie Taylor said: "We're enormously pleased to have found an act that not only meets but exceeds all the criteria for a great entry. "Blue are the perfect choice and we're so proud to have them representing us at this year's Eurovision Song Contest." Last year Germany's entry Lena Mayer-Landrut, emerged triumphant at the  Eurovision Song Contest. Teenager Josh Dubovie, who represented the UK with a song penned by Pete Waterman, scored just 10 points, coming last. The Eurovision Song Competition will take place on 14 May and be broadcast live on BBC One, with commentary by Graham Norton.
The EU has called for an "orderly transition" to a broad-based government in Egypt, in response to the protests against President Hosni Mubarak. EU foreign ministers in Brussels agreed that democratic reform should pave the way for "fair and free elections". EU foreign affairs chief Baroness Ashton said talks with the opposition should take place immediately. "It's absolutely critical that the government engage in open, frank, direct dialogue," she told reporters. After a seventh day of demonstrations in Egypt, the EU's 27 member states agreed a statement similar to the stance taken by the US, stopping short of demanding Mr Mubarak's resignation or immediate presidential elections. Diplomats told the BBC News website that they were focused more on Egypt's long term future and that this was not the time to talk about personalities. Several ministers, including British Foreign Secretary William Hague and German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, said it was important that Egypt did not fall into the hands of radicals or extremists. Jean Asselborn, Luxembourg Foreign Minister, said the EU could not "export revolution" and had to show that it was ready to help organise elections but "not to interfere". Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said he believed that only free and fair elections would bring stability to Egypt.
"Many people" will have witnessed the fatal stabbing of an 18-year-old and the shooting of a boy aged 14 in south London, police have said. Daniel Graham was attacked by up to six people "in full view" of the passengers on a bus and pedestrians in East Dulwich early on Saturday, they added. It is believed he was chased down a hill after a mass brawl at a party. The 14-year-old was attacked in a supermarket car park nearby. A boy of 13 has been bailed until late March. Police said Mr Graham had been at a party at Dulwich Hamlet football club on Friday night. About 70 youths were ejected from the clubhouse when the celebrations turned rowdy, witnesses said. Mr Graham, from Peckham Rye, left the party and ran down Dog Kennel Hill before boarding a stationary 176 bus. But when he realised he was being followed, he got off the vehicle, police said. He was then stabbed several times in the street at 0020 GMT. He managed to board the bus again, at which point passengers rang for an ambulance, but he died in hospital two hours later. Separately the 14-year-old victim, whose identity has not been given, was found at a hospital where he was seeking treatment for a gunshot wound to the leg. He remains in a stable condition. "East Dulwich is a busy area on a Friday night and I am sure that many people witnessed both incidents," said Det Ch Insp Dave Manning of the Metropolitan Police. "I need to hear from any of the passengers on the 176 bus or any pedestrians who were in the vicinity to come forward." He is the fourth teenager to be murdered in London in 2011.
If you are worried about not being able to keep up with repayments on your loans, credit cards or mortgage, there is lots of help available. For starters, you may want to take the BBC's Financial Healthcheck. to help you identify your financial priorities and receive tips on how to tackle them. It also outlines  how it is important to keep up to date with priority debts including housing and council tax. The BBC's Debt Test will help you to find out how likely you are to have problems - and what to do about them. A good place to start for help if you begin to struggle is the Citizens Advice website. The StepChange Debt Charity can also offer solutions via its online debt counselling service Debt Remedy. With energy costs rising, take a look at our guide to where to get help with heating bills. Groups including the StepChange Debt Charity or the National Debtline offer free, independent advice via their websites or you can speak to one of their specialists by contacting their helplines. The National Debtline has also developed an online service called My Money Steps. For up-to-date news and guides on debt issues, you can go to the BBC News website's dedicated section on dealing with debt. The material is for general information only and does not constitute investment, tax, legal or other form of advice. You should not rely on this information to make (or refrain from making) any decisions. Links to external sites are for information only and do not constitute endorsement. Always obtain independent, professional advice for your own particular situation.
A Swansea steel company that went into administration last month has been taken over by a Newport-based firm. Coilcolor has bought Falcon Steel which was based at the old Alcoa site. Thirty five people lost their jobs when the company failed but 16 have been re-employed and Coilcolor hopes to take on more in the next few months. Coilcolor, which makes coated steel, said due to the expansion it aimed to grow its workforce across both cities to around 90 by mid 2012. Managing director Dean Proctor said the deal safeguard the future of the Swansea plant and Coilcolor would begin manufacture at the Westfield Industrial Park site immediately. Mr Proctor added: "This deal gives Coilcolor a massive potential for growth. "Greater capacity means we can offer existing and new customers a leaner, fitter and even more cost-effective service. "Prospects are now even brighter for the existing company as well as our new team in Swansea and south Wales can boast the largest independent coil coating company in the UK." Coilcolor makes coated steel in a variety of colours and finishes which are used in the construction industry to clad buildings. The Swansea site will operate as a separate company to be known as Coilcolor West Ltd but will have mutual shareholders with the existing Newport company. Mr Proctor said turnover was expected to double from Â£30m within 24 months.
A nine-screen cinema complex has been given the go-ahead on a plot of land next to a 1920s seafront building in Bournemouth. Councillors backed plans for the Â£43m development after a controversial proposal for a casino was shelved. About 200 jobs are set to be created as part of the project at Bournemouth Pavilion Gardens, in Westover Road. The new building will also feature rooftop gardens with sea views, subject to planning permission. The pavilion currently houses a dance centre, ballroom and theatre and culture chiefs are also looking at proposals to create a drama centre for the Arts University College within another vacant part of the building. Councillor Ian Lancashire, from Bournemouth Borough Council, said he hoped the development would "kick-start" further investment. "We welcome the decision not to include a casino within this project - the new plans fit much more closely with our aspirations of providing family-friendly attractions and will generate higher footfall in this part of town. "Making better use of town centre land will be a major driver in improving our economy and profits from this landmark scheme will move forward restoration of our historic pavilion." It is expected that the two Odeon cinemas already operating close to the site will relocate into the building, opening up further redevelopment in the town. Developer Trevor Osborne said: "The cinemas in Westover Road are keen to relocate to our new development and we hope to continue our commitment to the town by regenerating the buildings they leave behind." The proposed cinema development remains subject to planning approval and funding.
Three police officers have resigned in Northern Ireland after failing drugs tests. The PSNI said the substances detected were cocaine and cannabis and the three resigned before the conclusion of disciplinary proceedings. A fourth police officer was required to resign as an alternative to dismissal after also testing positive for drugs. The sanction was overturned at appeal and the officer received a fine instead. In a statement, the PSNI said the public "rightly expects" that it "is a drug-free organisation". "The Police Service has introduced measures to prevent substance misuse by police personnel through the provision of education and support programmes and the introduction of a compulsory drug-testing regime," the statement added. "Whilst we are confident that the vast majority of our officers are not involved in any kind of substance misuse, we have a responsibility to ensure we deal robustly with any officer who supplies or uses illegal drugs." DUP Policing Board member, Jimmy Spratt, said that if police officers were found to have been involved in the misuse of drugs they should expect to be "robustly dealt with". "I think very clearly if something criminal has happened then whether it is a police officer or not, I would expect that to be reported to the Public Prosecution Service and for them to decide whether it was necessary to proceed with criminal proceedings," he added. The PSNI said the four police officers had been detected as the result of intelligence. All of the officers were suspended pending the outcome of formal misconduct proceedings.
US President Barack Obama has signed an arms treaty with Russia that would reduce the nations' nuclear arsenals and bolster verification mechanisms. The Russian president signed similar documents last week, so the New Start treaty will come into effect when the papers are exchanged this weekend. The treaty was approved by the US Senate in December and by the Russian parliament last month. It replaces the 1991 Start treaty which expired in December 2009. The New Start treaty, agreed to by Mr Obama and Russian President Dmitry Medvedev in April, limits each side to no more than 800 deployed nuclear warhead delivery systems (including bombers, missile launchers and nuclear submarines), a cut of about 50%. It limits each side to 1,550 deployed warheads. It will also allow each side visually to inspect the other's nuclear capability, with the aim of verifying how many warheads each missile carries. The White House barred reporters from the Oval Office when Mr Obama signed the treaty, but allowed still photographers. The pact, opposed by many Republicans, could become an issue in the 2012 US political campaign. Among other criticisms, US opponents of the treaty argued Russia would have reduced stockpiles anyway as its arsenal aged, so the US had no reason to agree to scrap its own nuclear arms.
The prospects for our pensions seem to become poorer almost every day. Employers keep shutting their final-salary schemes, both to current members as well as new joiners. The general level of inflation-proofing that both public and private schemes offer, looks set to get weaker. The government also wants us to work longer, and save more, to finance our retirement as our longevity continues to increase. Living longer puts extra pressure on pension assets to produce the necessary income in the future. Meanwhile, the prospects for healthy returns from investment in shares, bonds and commercial property look as volatile as ever. The Pensions Advisory Service offers free guidance about pensions, and the Consumer Financial Education Body explains the jargon in its Moneymadeclear website. Its site also features a basic guide to what to do with your pension pot once you retire. You can read more about forthcoming changes to the rules on annuities, outlined by a specialist in the field. The government's own website has up-to-date-information about the state pension and other benefits. You can also read our guides to how you could be affected by the end of the default retirement age and plans for a later state pension age. You can always go to the BBC News website's in-depth section on pensions which also explains the state of UK pensions in graphics. and includes a video guide to the different types of pension schemes. The material is for general information only and does not constitute investment, tax, legal or other form of advice. You should not rely on this information to make (or refrain from making) any decisions. Links to external sites are for information only and do not constitute endorsement. Always obtain independent, professional advice for your own particular situation.
Unmarried couples should have rights to a share of property and money if they split up, the top family judge in England and Wales has said. Sir Nicholas Wall, president of the Family Division of the High Court, told the Times that women tended to lose out under the current system. This was because there was an absence of any law on dividing up the assets of couples who lived together, he said. Sir Nicholas said judges should be able to decide on claims in such situations. He said the courts would be more sympathetic to a claim for rights where a couple had lived together for a long time. Sir Nicholas said: "I am in favour of cohabitees having rights because of the injustice of the present situation. "Women cohabitees, in particular, are severely disadvantaged by being unable to claim maintenance and having their property rights determined by the conventional laws of trusts." He added: "If cohabitation has been short and the contribution minimal, judges would not be sympathetic to a claim." Sir Nicholas was giving his first national newspaper interview since becoming president of the Family Division last year. In 2007 the Law Commission called for new legal rights for people living together in long-term relationships. Sir Nicholas said he was "disappointed" the government had not acted to bring about the changes. And the 65-year-old married father-of-four denied that the moves he was proposing may undermine the institution of marriage. "Marriage undoubtedly remains the most stable relationship for bringing up children and for support," he said.
Americans and Canadians are recovering from a monster winter storm that crippled air and road transport, closed schools and destroyed buildings. Warnings were issued about conditions across the mid-west, where temperatures were set to fall below -34C. The storm, which passed over Canada's Maritime provinces early on Thursday, was blamed for at least 12 deaths. It dumped nearly 2ft (0.6m) of snow on Chicago, bringing the typically bustling city to a frozen halt. The city closed schools for a second day in a row, and road authorities tried to clear cars abandoned on snow-clogged roads. In eastern Canada, schools and businesses were closed on Thursday morning after the storm, which originated in the US state of Texas 3,300km away, dumped some 40cm of snow in parts of Nova Scotia and brought 50km/h (31mph) winds to some areas. In the hard-hit US state of Oklahoma, three people were killed on Thursday when their vehicle ran off a snowy bridge into a river, the Tulsa World newspaper reported. US air traffic remained hampered on Thursday as airports struggled to clear snow from runways and recover from widespread cancellations during Wednesday's storm. By mid-afternoon, 2,502 US flights were cancelled, according to tracking website FlightAware.com, including 402 from Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, one of the busiest in the nation. Across the north-east, buildings that collapsed under the weight of snow and ice piled on roofs included a school building in Connecticut, an aircraft hangar near Boston and a gas station canopy on Long Island. In Massachusetts, at least 44 buildings collapsed, mostly flat-roofed commercial buildings, Emergency Management Agency spokesman Peter Judge told the Boston Globe. In upstate New York, a barn roof fell in, trapping cows inside, the Associated Press reported.
A female Italian tourist has been abducted while travelling in the Algerian Sahara, local media and security sources say. The woman, 53, was travelling south of the city of Djanet, close to the borders with Niger and Libya, Algerian newspaper Echorouk reports. She has probably been taken by her captors into Niger, it says. She was reportedly kidnapped with her driver and guide by a group of 14 men riding in two trucks. She arrived in the country on 20 January for a month-long holiday, Echorouk adds. There was no suggestion that the abduction was linked to recent anti-government unrest in Algeria. Nor was there any immediate claim of responsibility but it comes in a region where the kidnapping of foreign nationals has caused increasing alarm. The woman was abducted on Wednesday at about 1800 (1700 GMT) in Alidem, an area 130km (80 miles) south of Djanet, a security source told AFP news agency. The driver and guide who were with her were freed and told investigators they had been kidnapped by "14 men riding in two Toyota trucks". Troops in the Alidem region have been put on alert and are searching for the vehicles. But the abductors have probably already left the country, the source added. Last year, Algeria, Niger and fellow Sahara states Mauritania and Mali set up a joint military headquarters in the south of Algeria to improve co-ordination in combating one of the most powerful militant groups in the region, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Mahgreb (AQIM). The group, which emerged in 2007 from an Algerian militant group, carries out kidnappings for ransom or to demand the release of prisoners as part of its activities.
Mother and daughter act Norma Waterson and Eliza Carthy have scooped two prizes at the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards. The duo won album of the year for Gift, their first joint record, picking up an extra prize for best traditional track. Carthy accepted the award on behalf of her mother, who has been in intensive care for more than three months. Eleven-piece band Bellowhead were also double award winners at the ceremony in central London, taking home prizes for best group and best live act. Chris Wood was named folk singer of the year while his track Hollow Point - a song about the police shooting of Brazilian man Jean Charles de Menezes - won best original song. As previously announced, Glasgow-born singer-songwriter Donovan received a lifetime achievement award. The 64-year-old said he was "honoured" to get the accolade, having been "fired with the mission to bring Celtic music back to popular culture". The Who front man Roger Daltrey presented the musician of the year award to Andy Cutting, a prize he previously won in 2008. Married couple Nancy Kerr and James Fagan were presented the best duo prize, while the Levellers were the recipients of the Roots award. Elsewhere the good tradition award went to Port Isaac's Fisherman's Friends in recognition of their contribution to traditional folk music. The singing Cornish fisherman signed a record deal last March, with their first album of sea shanties made the UK album chart Top 10 a month later. Trio Moore/Moss/Rutter were awarded the Young Folk award, the result of Radio 2's annual search for the most promising young folk artist in the UK. Laura Marling and Bellowhead were among the performers at the event, broadcast live on Radio 2.
Military chiefs in America say a new, unmanned stealth bomber has carried out its first test flight. The X-47B jet is being designed by weapons manufacturer Northrop Grumman for the US Navy. It was in the air for 29 minutes during its maiden flight and reached an altitude of 5,000 feet. Officials say it will help form part of a new generation of unmanned drones and works like a smaller version of the B-2 Stealth Bomber. As such it would be very different from the current fleet of remote controlled military planes like the Predator and Reaper. Instead the X-47B would be virtually invisible to radar and fly at much faster speeds than those older, propeller driven machines. In a statement Captain Jaime Engdahl, a programme manager for the warplane, said: "Today we got a glimpse towards the future as the Navy's first-ever tailless, jet-powered unmanned aircraft took to the skies." The flight was primarily designed to test the jet's guidance and navigation systems and the aerodynamic control of the tailless design. It was controlled from the ground by a joint team of the company's engineers and Navy specialists. Northrop is building the bomber as part of a Â£395 million contract signed in 2007. Janis Pamiljans is vice-president of Northrop Grumman's Aerospace Systems sector. "Designing a tailless, fighter-sized unmanned aircraft from a clean sheet is no small feat. "Commitment, collaboration and uncompromising technical excellence among the Navy [and] Northrop Grumman made today's flight a reality. "We are indeed honoured to have given wings to the Navy's vision for exploring unmanned carrier aviation." Although it will be several years before the X-47B is ready for operations officials say it should have its first test flight from an aircraft carrier in 2013. Follow Radio 1's technology reporter Dan Whitworth on Twitter
Tomato-growing is not usually associated with organised crime - but that could be about to change. Investigators in Italy are to examine claims that the mafia dominates the distribution of Sicily's Pachino tomatoes. Many food-lovers consider this particularly sweet and juicy variety to be the country's best tomatoes. The investigation follows a popular TV presenter's call for a shoppers' boycott. Pachino tomatoes are widely acknowledged to be tastier than most. So it was a shock to many - especially in a country that takes its food as seriously as Italy - when one of the best-known faces on daytime television accused the mafia of having taken control of their distribution and urged shoppers to stop buying them. The moustachioed Alessandro di Pietro hosts "Occhio alla Spesa" (which translates as "keeping an eye on the shopping") - a price-watching programme popular with stay-at-home housewives that doesn't usually court controversy. Shoppers, said Mr di Pietro, were being asked to fork out 11 times as much for Pachino tomatoes as growers were being paid. The mafia, he alleged, was pocketing the difference. His call for a boycott has outraged many Sicilians. One, Italian Environment Minister Stefania Prestagiacomo, warned that the claims could destroy the livelihood of up to 5,000 farmers. Italy's parliamentary anti-mafia commission, however, responded to the furore by announcing that it's to launch its own investigation into the claims.
One in five victims of domestic violence in Cheshire is male, police have revealed. Cheshire Police released the statistic as they launched a campaign to urge male victims to report abuse. Officers said they were raising the issue in the run-up to Valentine's Day, "when relationships are at the forefront of everyone's mind". Information about help will be in GP surgeries, community centres, shops and sports centres. Assistant Chief Constable Phil Thompson said: "Domestic abuse knows no boundaries and it can happen to anyone at any time regardless of gender, age and sexuality. "Men in particular find it hard to speak out if they are being abused, but we want to reassure anyone who may be suffering at the hands of another, that domestic abuse is an issue that we take extremely seriously - whatever time of the year. "Traditionally the emphasis has been on female victims of abuse but it is important to highlight the fact that many victims of domestic abuse are also men. "By bringing this important issue to the front of people's minds we hope that it will encourage any men to have the confidence in contacting us if they want to end the cycle of abuse."
Burton's Foods appears to have ruled out any chance of saving its biscuit factory in Wirral, despite a plea from the council for the firm to reconsider. The company said in January it was closing the Moreton site, with the loss of 342 jobs. Wirral Council leader Councillor Jeff Green met Burton's boss Ben Clarke on Friday to ask if further council support would change the plans. The firm said proposing to close the site was not an easy decision. A spokesperson said: "The period of consultation with employee representatives at our Moreton site is ongoing during what we recognise is an extremely difficult time for Burton's Foods workers at the site, and their families too. "Burton's Foods has maintained an open dialogue with unions and others in the local community since announcing its supply chain review. "Especially given our long history at the site, the proposal to close Moreton was not made lightly and the review was extremely thorough." The company, which makes Jammie Dodgers and Wagon Wheels, has proposed phasing down production at Moreton from March before completing the closure later in 2011. It also plans to consolidate its Knowlsey multi-site distribution operations in a single location. It will, however, invest Â£7m at its manufacturing sites in Edinburgh and Llantarnam, South Wales.
A former head teacher who was made a dame for services to education has had her honour revoked, two years after being found guilty of misconduct. Jean Else, 59, was awarded the title in 2001 after transforming Manchester's Whalley Range High School. She was banned from running a school in 2009 by the General Teaching Council (GTC) after a misconduct hearing. It was announced in the London Gazette, an official journal of record, that Ms Else's honour had been withdrawn. The notice reads: "The Queen has directed that the appointment of Jean Else to be a Dame Commander of the Civil Division of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, dated 30 December 2000, shall be cancelled and annulled and that her name shall be erased from the Register of the said Order." Ms Else initially rose to prominence by turning around the school with the worst truancy record in England into one at which more than half of pupils gained more than five GCSEs at A* to C. During her tenure, Ms Else's twin sister, Maureen Rochford, rose from a part-time post as a clerical assistant to earn more than Â£58,000-a-year as assistant head. Ms Else was suspended in 2004 and dismissed two years later after an investigation by Manchester City Council. She was subsequently found guilty of failing to observe minimum standards in recruiting and promoting staff at the school after failing to follow proper procedures in relation to 10 staff, including her sister. Ms Else apologised to the General Teaching Council panel for not following procedures during her 10 years in charge of the school, and acknowledged she had not observed recruitment standards when making several appointments.
A cold case inquiry has been opened to try to find a father-of-two who has been missing from his home in Norfolk for almost four years. Terry McSpadden, 24, of Elm, was last seen early on 2 March 2007, having spent the previous evening in the Locomotive pub in Wisbech. He has not contacted his friends and family since. Det Ch Insp Neil Luckett said: "We can find no significant reason for his disappearance." "Terry was well known in the local community and he was very much a local man," he added. Mr McSpadden is known to have visited Tesco in Wisbech just before 0100 GMT and is then believed to have returned home. Since that time there has been no significant information about what has happened to him. His mother and stepfather, Helen and Gerald Thrower, said in a statement: "Terry disappeared almost four years ago and it is difficult to remain positive. We can't believe he hasn't made contact with his children whom he loved very much." His stepmother Susan Rolfe and father Stephen said any news would be "a great relief". Norfolk Police described his disappearance as completely out of character and said they were very concerned for his welfare. He is 6ft (1.83m), with brown eyes and had short cropped light brown hair. He has a scar under his lower lip. Det Ch Insp Luckett added: "He was known as a reliable, hard worker by his employers. He had two young children and strong local ties. "I would like to hear from anyone who has any information about what has happened to him or the circumstances of his disappearance."
A painting by Francis Bacon of his friend and fellow artist Lucian Freud has sold at auction for £23m ($37m) - three times the pre-sale estimate. The triptych, Three Studies For A Portrait Of Lucian Freud, went to an anonymous buyer at Sotheby's in London. Cheyenne Westphal, from Sotheby's, said it was "an artwork that radiates 'wall-power'". The sale also saw a Salvador Dali painting reach £13.5m - a new record for any Surrealist work at auction. The price for Portrait de Paul Eluard smashes the previous record for Dali of £4.1m, which was set in London just 24 hours earlier. Bacon and Freud met in 1945 and became close companions, painting each other on a number of occasions. Three Studies For A Portrait Of Lucian Freud has been kept in private since shortly after its completion in 1965. It was expected to sell for between £7m and £9m, but when it came up for auction on Thursday the price was driven up by more than 10 competing bidders from four continents. It eventually went for a £23,001,250, including the buyer's premium. Ms Westphal, chairman of Contemporary Art Europe at Sotheby's, said: "This striking painting has everything a collector in the current market is looking for. "It is an artwork that radiates 'wall-power' with its brilliant colour and dramatic brushstrokes. "It narrates one of the most impressive artistic relationships of the 20th Century between two titans of British art and is desirably fresh to the market having remained in the same collection for almost half a century."
Yale University has signed an agreement to return to Peru some 5,000 Inca artefacts removed from the famed Machu Picchu citadel nearly a century ago. The relics - stone tools, ceramics and human and animal bones - will be housed in a new centre in the city of Cuzco. The deal ends a long dispute over the artefacts, which were taken from Machu Picchu by American explorer Hiram Bingham in 1912. Machu Picchu, high in the Andes, is Peru's main tourist attraction. "This agreement ensures the expanded accessibility of these Machu Picchu collections for research and public appreciation in their natural context," Yale President Richard Levin said. Victor Raul Aguilar, rector of San Antonio Abad University in Cuzco, said he hoped that "all who visit Machu Picchu will enrich their experience and understanding of Inca culture with a visit to the centre". The International Centre for the Study of Machu Picchu and Inca Culture will be jointly run  by the US and Peruvian universities. Peru had argued during the dispute that the artefacts were lent in 1911 but never returned. It filed a lawsuit against Yale in 2008. Yale had said that it returned those relics which it borrowed, while it had full ownership of many others. It also took protest marches and a letter penned by Peruvian President Alan Garcia to his US counterpart Barack Obama to win the battle over the artefacts, the BBC's Dan Collyns in Lima reports. The relics will be yet another draw for hundreds of thousands of tourists who visit the 15th Century Inca site every year, our correspondent adds.
Edinburgh University scientists have claimed malaria is particularly deadly because the parasites which carry it battle other infections for survival. They found, when malaria parasites enter the bloodstream, they alter their plan of attack if they face competition from other strains of the infection. However, it means they have less resources left to spread the disease. Malaria, which is spread by mosquitoes, kills about one million people every year. The scientists found the malaria parasites focus on producing cells that replicate quickly to cause infection, rather than cells capable of being taken up by a feeding mosquito and spreading the disease. Since malaria infections usually consist of multiple, competing strains of the parasite, this attack strategy is the best way to beat the competition, the scientists said. However, it means the parasites pay a high price, as they therefore have fewer resources left to spread the disease. Laura Pollitt of Edinburgh University's school of biological sciences said: "Our results explain a long-standing puzzle of parasite behaviour. "We found that when parasites compete with each other, they respond with a sophisticated strategy to safeguard their long-term survival. "They opt to fight it out in the bloodstream rather than risk everything on the chance of infecting mosquitoes in the short term." The research, published in the American Naturalist, was funded by the Wellcome Trust, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and the Natural Environment Research Council.
District rates have been struck by Derry City Council and Strabane District Council. Rates in the Derry City Council area are to rise by 2.5%, an average increase of £20 per year. Sinn Fein councillor Paul Fleming, who chairs the committee which determines the district rate, said "a positive balance had been struck." "We have maintained services and there is no threat to jobs," he said. "We have also built in a number of progressive measures which will benefit the city and district." SDLP councillor Gerard Diver said the Derry City Council rate was "a figure to be proud of." "Considering the conflicting demands on the council at the minute and diminishing resources, we have arrived at a rate that offers value for money," he said. The DUP's Joe Millar described the rate as "probably one of the lowest struck" in his 22 years as a councillor. Ulster Unionist councillor Mary Hamilton said she was "glad" the rate had been able to be "kept down". Strabane District Council has reduced its district rate, agreeing a decrease of 1.79 per cent. Strabane Council Chief Executive, Philip Faithful, said the reduction "does not mean that services will suffer". "Waste management is one of our biggest issues," he said. "We could continue with a negative rates rise every year if we could control the amount of waste going to landfill." Stormont has yet to strike the regional rate.
Islamic morality police in Malaysia have arrested more than 80 Muslims in an operation to stop them celebrating Valentine's Day. Officers raided budget hotels in the central state of Selangor and capital, Kuala Lumpur, detaining unmarried Muslim couples who were sharing rooms. The religious authorities in Malaysia say Valentine's Day is synonymous with immoral activities. Those arrested could be jailed for up to two years if convicted. The anti-Valentine's Day campaign by the country's Islamic authorities goes back to a fatwa issued in 2005. On Monday evening, religious enforcement officers launched co-ordinated raids, targeting budget hotels and public parks in Selangor and Kuala Lumpur. In Selangor alone, officials said 80 people were detained for khalwat or close proximity - an Islamic law that prevents unmarried Muslims from being alone with someone of the opposite sex. In the capital, officials detained 16 mainly teenage Muslims, who had paid about 50 ringgit (Â£9) for a hotel room for two hours, according to a report from the AFP news agency. The raids stem from a campaign launched last week by the religious authorities, called Mind the Valentine's Day Trap. The government-run Department of Islamic Development said Valentine's Day was "synonymous with vice activities" and that it contravened Islamic teachings. Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin had labelled Monday's celebration as "not suitable" for Muslims. Other faiths were not affected by the boycott in a country where Muslims make up nearly two-thirds of the 28 million population. But not all Malaysian Muslims agreed with the campaign, with some saying Valentine's Day is harmless. Human rights groups say actions such as the Valentine's Day ban harm Malaysia's image as a moderate and progressive Muslim-majority state.
Plans to put pedestrians first in the heart of Edinburgh city centre are set to be approved by councillors. The blueprint for the next five years includes taking away street furniture, making areas "more people friendly" and having less traffic. The proposals target Princes Street, George Street and Rose Street. A report, going before the council's policy and strategy committee, details the results of a review by urban design consultants, Gehl Architects. The council-commissioned review said temporary projects, such as increasing footway space on the north side of George Street and increasing the opening hours of kiosks, along with longer-term projects, such as creating pedestrian spaces in the centre of George Street, could transform the city centre. There are also proposals to review the city's bus networks and bus provision for the centre. An Edinburgh City Council spokesman said: "Gehl's approach, which focuses heavily on people and how they use places, was used successfully in New York and Melbourne, where their work has been instrumental to bringing bold changes to public spaces in these cities." Jenny Dawe, Edinburgh City Council leader, said: "Edinburgh is a world class city and a magnet for visitors but, equally, there is a consensus that the quality of public space in some parts of the city centre lets us down. "I am determined that this action plan be implemented. The starting point is the delivery of temporary short-term projects, which can be done quickly and cheaply to bring much needed changes to the dynamic of the city centre. "Gehl's findings reinforce the clear correlation between good public places and good economic performance, as already demonstrated by the success of the recent redevelopments of St Andrew Square and the Grassmarket."
The downfall of Tunisia's President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali inspired pro-democracy activists across the Arab world. Widespread discontent at economic hardship, decades of autocratic rule and corruption erupted into mass demonstrations in December 2010 after a young, unemployed man, Mohamed Bouazizi, set fire to himself after officials stopped him selling vegetables in Sidi Bouzid. Around 300 people were killed during the subsequent unrest, which forced Ben Ali to resign in January 2011, after 23 years in power, and go into exile in Saudi Arabia. He was later sentenced to life in prison in absentia. In October 2011, Tunisia held its first democratic parliamentary elections. The moderate Islamist Ennahda party won more than 41% of the vote in the constituent assembly tasked with drafting a new constitution. Veteran dissident Moncef Marzouki was then elected president. Since July 2013 a stand-off between Ennahda and its secular rivals, triggered by the assassination of two leftist politicians and other violence blamed on Salafists, has thwarted efforts to complete the draft constitution. Opposition supporters took to the streets to demand a non-partisan caretaker government until the constitution was finished and new elections were held, and in December 2013 the main political parties agreed on appointing Mehdi Jomaa as prime minister.
The US Senate has voted to extend controversial surveillance powers granted by the Patriot Act law, put in place after the 9/11 attacks. By a vote of 86-12, the Senate approved a 90-day extension of wiretaps, access to business records and surveillance of terror suspects. The move came one day after the House of Representatives voted to extend the provisions until 8 December. The White House backed the bill, but would have favoured a longer extension. The House and Senate must now reach a compromise on extending the surveillance powers, which are set to expire on 28 February. The brief extension gives those in Congress a chance to review the measures that some claim are unconstitutional infringements on personal liberties. The provisions covered under the bill give the US government the authority for "roving surveillance" of suspects who might be able to thwart investigative methods that ordinarily require a judge's warrant. They also give federal investigators access to business records with a warrant from a secret national security court and grant federal law enforcement greater power to watch foreign so-called "lone wolf" terror suspects. The Patriot Act was shepherded through Congress by President George W Bush shortly after the terror attacks of 11 September, 2001. Mr Bush and other supporters argued that the legal safeguards traditionally granted to criminal suspects left the US ill-protected against further attacks.
The final line-up of teams competing for the $30 million (£18.5m) robotic Moon-explorer prize has been confirmed. The prize will go to the builders of the first robot to send back video as it travels over 500 metres of the Moon's surface. Competition organisers hope to spur the development of low-cost robotic space exploration. The Google-sponsored Lunar X-Prize will be fought over by 29 teams from 17 different countries. Organisers believe that the competition - first announced in 2007 - could have a winner by 2015. "The official private race to the Moon is on," said Peter Diamandis, chief executive of the X-Prize Foundation. The teams come from a wildly divergent background, ranging from non-profit consortia and university groups to well-funded businesses. Several of the teams have already bought rides on spacecraft to transport their robots. Astrobotic Technology, a spin off-off from Carnegie Mellon University has signed a deal with SpaceX - the private space company set up by PayPal founder Elon Musk - to use its Falcon 9 rocket. Meanwhile, government-backed space agencies are also planning to send craft to the Moon. Spacecraft from a joint Russian and Indian team and a separate one from China are pencilled to set off for the Moon in 2013. But the X-Prize's backers think the future of space exploration will be driven by privately-funded groups. "The most successful and revolutionary discoveries often come from small, entrepreneurial teams," said Tiffany Montague, of Google Space Initiatives.
Fellow stars of Gavin and Stacey attended the funeral of actress Margaret John, 84, who died after a short illness earlier this month. Actress and co-writer Ruth Jones and comedian Rob Brydon were among the mourners along with other cast members. Co-star and writer James Corden said John, from Swansea, was an "incredible lady" who "will be sadly missed". A private funeral service was held at Morriston crematorium for the actress who played Doris in the TV comedy. Larry Lamb, from EastEnders, and Master and Commander star Robert Pugh were also among the 150 mourners. John, who received a Bafta Cymru lifetime achievement award in 2009, was a widow who had no children. Her ashes will be scattered over Swansea Bay by the crew of the Mumbles Lifeboat. Although known in recent years for her colourful one-liners in Barry-based Gavin and Stacey, the actress had a long and distinguished career, leaving drama school in 1950. Her earlier career included a brief spell in Coronation Street in 1965 as well as a role in Z Cars, Dr Who, Dixon of Dock Green and Emmerdale Farm. John also starred in David Schwimmer's British film comedy Run Fatboy Run (2007), and enjoyed recent appearances in medical dramas Casualty and Doctors, and the BBC drama Framed. She played the part of Elsie 'Mam' Hepplewhite in BBC Wales comedy High Hopes between 2002 and 2008, starring alongside Robert Blythe and Boyd Clack.
The prosecutor in the case of two men accused of raping and killing British teenager Scarlett Keeling has resigned. The body of the 15-year-old, from Bideford, Devon, was found three years ago on Anjuna beach in Goa, India. Samson D'Souza, 30, and Placido Carvalho, 42, have denied sexual assault, outraging modesty and destroying evidence. A new prosecutor has been assigned, but he has asked for time to consider whether or not to take the case. The trial, which is being held at the Indian Children's Court in Goa, has been running for 11 months. Vikram Varma, the lawyer representing Scarlett's mother Fiona MacKeown, said S R Rivonkar's decision to quit was a "setback" which had dampened his hopes of a successful prosecution. Mr Rivonkar was chosen as prosecuting counsel by India's Central Bureau of Investigation. When Scarlett's body was found in February 2008, police in Goa initially said her death had been an accidental drowning. However a second post-mortem examination, held at the insistence of Ms MacKeown, found she had been raped and killed. Ms MacKeown, who is still waiting to bury her daughter, told BBC News she had no specific plans to mark the third anniversary of her daughter's death on Friday.
An Isle of Man landmark will be bathed in purple light as part of a campaign to eradicate polio. The Tower of Refuge will be lit up in recognition of Rotary International's Thanks For Life campaign. The Rotary Club in Douglas is holding fundraising activities across the Isle of Man over the next seven days. Purple was chosen because medical teams stain children's little fingers with a purple dye to show they have been immunised. The campaign is the final push in the club's campaign to remove polio from the four countries where it is prevalent. Howard Callow is the chairman of club service at the Rotary Club of Douglas. He said: "Purple is the chosen colour and thanks to the help from the Department of Infrastructure we will see the Tower of Refuge turning purple, which will be quite a sight. "It's not the first time that important landmarks have been used, as part of a campaign, the Houses of Parliament in Westminster have been used, Table Mountain in South Africa has been used, so the Tower of Refuge is up there with the world's greatest heritage sights." Over the last 20 years, polio cases have been cut by 99%, and the condition is close to being eradicated. It is still endemic in Afghanistan, India, Nigeria and Pakistan. And it is present in more than 12 countries altogether.
Police in China showed up in force in several major cities after an online call for a "jasmine revolution". Calls for people to protest and shout "we want food, we want work, we want housing, we want fairness", were circulated on Chinese microblog sites. The message was first posted on a US-based Chinese-language website. Several rights activists were detained beforehand and three people were arrested in Shanghai, but the call for mass protests was not well answered. Reports from Shanghai and Beijing said there appeared to be many onlookers curious about the presence of so many police and journalists at the proposed protest sites, in busy city-centre shopping areas. Police in the two cities dispersed small crowds who had gathered. There were no reports of protests in 11 other cities where people were urged to gather on Sunday. The BBC's Chris Hogg in Shanghai says the men arrested there were roughly handled as they were dragged away shouting "why are you arresting me, I haven't done anything wrong". Our correspondent says it was not clear what prompted the arrests and the men had not shouted any political slogans. China's authorities blocked searches for the word jasmine on the internet. Protesters in Tunisia who overthrew President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in January called their movement the Jasmine Revolution. On Saturday President Hu Jintao called for stricter controls on the internet "to guide public opinion" and "solve prominent problems which might harm the harmony and stability of the society".
Postal workers get through two million red rubber bands per day, the Royal Mail has revealed. In the past five years, the organisation has spent almost Â£5m on four billion bands which are used to bundle letters together. Keep Britain Tidy has called for their use to be reduced because they say wild animals can choke on them. The Royal Mail says the bands are necessary and that they use biodegradable ones. The figures were released to the Daily Telegraph under the Freedom of Information Act. It said that the amount the postal organisation spends on bands has increased by 40% in five years. Keep Britain Tidy has long campaigned against the use of rubber bands. In 2009, about 13,000 discarded bands were collected by people and sent in to the charity who then delivered them to the Royal Mail's headquarters. Dickie Felton, from Keep Britain Tidy, has previously said: "We accept that dropping an elastic band is hardly the worst littering offence in the world, but none-the-less it is litter. "The bands look terrible strewn on the floor and pose a choking danger to pets and wildlife." A Royal Mail spokesman said: "Royal Mail regularly reminds postmen and women about the importance of avoiding litter. "The vast majority of rubber bands are re-used by our people in delivery offices and mail centres across the UK."
Strathclyde Police has reported another rise in domestic abuse incidents following an Old Firm match day. The force said it responded to 157 domestic abuse incidents and arrested 51 people on Sunday, when Celtic played Rangers at Celtic Park. Throughout the policing area, a total of 230 arrests were made for violence, anti-social behaviour and disorder incidents compared to an average 182. Police blamed excessive match day drinking for the spike in violence. Assistant Chief Constable Campbell Corrigan said: "Let's be perfectly clear - we are not blaming the fans and the clubs for the levels of violence and disorder. The vast majority of people enjoyed the match and were able to enjoy their day without being affected by any violence. "However, with around 230 arrests yesterday for violence, anti-social behaviour and disorder incidents, it's clear that we are left to mop up the consequences of people drinking to excess. People were behaving outrageously and the general public shouldn't tolerate it. "Far too many people are drinking too much and are doing so over a sustained period of time. As a result, they get drunk, become full of aggression, and inevitably end up getting into bother - accident and emergency's were full across the force area." Police said 23 people were arrested at the Old Firm match, which Celtic won 3-0, with 16 of these for sectarian breach of the peace.
Established brands such as John Lewis and Argos now account for half the places in the UK's top 50 web brands, according to new statistics. It includes media brands such as the BBC, Sky and the Telegraph. But the top five remains dominated by web names, including Google, Facebook and Yahoo. An annual survey of the top 50 UK web names found that the dotcoms that dominated the charts seven years ago have disappeared. "Brands set up purely for the web have disappeared and it is 'back-to-the-future' offline brands that are doing well in 2011," said a spokesman for UK Online Measurement (UKOM) which conducted the research. It found social media sites now hold 10 places in the top 50. This compares to just one - Friends Reunited - in 2004. Information sites such as wikianswers, about.com and ehow are also new entrants to the chart. There is a growing acceptance by consumers of 'anonymous authority' - unedited content uploaded by users, thinks UKOM general manager James Smythe. "The web has always made it easier for people to feed their fundamental desire to socialise, but the critical element of trust in social online environments has now become mainstream," he said. The top five web brands has remained relatively static since 2004, with Google, Yahoo, the BBC and MSN all in the top five for the last seven years. Facebook moved into the top five only last year and holds on to its number 3 place. Twitter is quite a way behind at number 38. Traditional media companies, such as Sky, ITV and the Telegraph, account for 16 places, up from nine in 2004. Dotcom firms which flourished in 2004, such as Kelkoo, Friends Reunited, Lycos and LastMinute no longer feature in the top 50.
Thousands of currant buns will be thrown from the roof of the Abingdon County Hall Museum to mark the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton. Buns have traditionally been thrown from the top of the building since the coronation of George III in 1761. The event had previously been put into doubt because of renovation work on the Grade I listed building. Adela Thomas, of the museum, said people would have to throw "a little further" to clear the scaffolding. The tradition celebrates royal weddings and significant anniversaries. The buns, which are baked locally, were thrown to mark the Queen's Golden Jubilee in 2002 and for the 450th anniversary of Abingdon's town charter in 2006. The Mayor of Abingdon and members of the town council will take part in the event. Ms Thomas said: "We've been assured that people will have access to the roof. Four thousand currant buns will be thrown to the waiting crowds below. "Recent... occasions have witnessed bun throwers using novel ways of propelling the buns including the use of tennis racquets and catapults." The roof and interiors of the County Hall Museum are currently being renovated as part of a Â£3.5m Heritage Lottery Fund project. When it opens in May 2012 it will have increased display areas, a cafe and a learning community space. The bun-throwing begins at 1800 BST on Friday 29 April.
Roman Polanski has been named best director at the Cesar awards for his political thriller The Ghost Writer. The film, released as The Ghost in the UK, won three additional prizes for its screenplay, music and editing. But Polanski missed out on the best film prize, which went instead to the French religious drama Of Gods and Men. US director Quentin Tarantino received an honorary Cesar at the Paris event, where Facebook drama The Social Network was crowned best foreign film. Of Gods and Men, inspired by the murder of seven French monks in Algeria in 1996, had led the field ahead of the ceremony with 11 nominations. Apart from its best film award, though, it only received two other prizes - one for supporting actor Michel Lonsdale and another for its cinematography. The best actor prize went to Eric Elmosnino for his portrayal of French singer Serge Gainsbourg in a biopic named after him. His compatriot Sara Forestier was named best actress for The Names of Love, about an activist who converts political opponents to her cause by sleeping with them. Tarantino was presented his award by Diane Kruger and Christoph Waltz, two of the stars of his 2009 war movie Inglourious Basterds. Two-time Oscar winner Jodie Foster introduced the event, with French comedian Antoine de Caunes serving as master of ceremonies.
Four bodies with their heads severed have been dumped in the Mexican city of Nuevo Laredo, close to the border with the US, police say. Gunmen laid the decapitated bodies out on a sheet in a central square in full view of horrified pedestrians. On the sheet was a written message from the Gulf drugs cartel to a rival gang. Beheadings have become a feature of the violent struggle between Mexican drugs gangs fighting for control of smuggling routes into the US. More than 34,600 people have died in drug-related violence in Mexico since December 2006, when President Felipe Calderon began deploying the army to fight the cartels. Much of the violence has been concentrated in northern states along the US border. Nuevo Laredo is in Tamaulipas state, which has been the focus of a bloody turf war between the Gulf cartel and the Zetas gang. Attacks on the security forces have also become frequent in the state. Earlier this month Nuevo Laredo's police chief Manuel Farfan - a former army officer - was shot dead along with two of his bodyguards. Last June, a candidate for the governor of Tamaulipas, Rodolfo Torre Cantu, was killed on the campaign trail in an attack blamed on drug gangs. And in August, the bodies of 72 Central and South American migrants were found inside a ranch in the state, after they allegedly refused to pay an extortion fee to the gangs.
The Seigneur of Sark will not sell the island under any circumstances, he has said in a statement. It follows recent media reports suggesting Michael Beaumont might be open to the sale of the Fief of Sark in the future. He said: "I will not sell the fief under any circumstances for any sum, however high. "I have no intention of reneging on my obligations accepted on my becoming seigneur." Mr Beaumont said: "If Chief Pleas becomes unable to operate as a free democratic assembly due to external intimidation then I would give serious consideration to surrendering my lease to the Crown." The island's government underwent significant reform in 2008, following a referendum after calls for change were made under the European Convention of Human Rights. Those changes did not include the abolition of the feudal roles of Seigneur and Seneschal. The billionaire brothers Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay, who own the neighbouring island of Brecqhou, have been among those calling for more radical reform, including an end the feudal roles. In 2010 the Seneschal stood down from his role as president of Chief Pleas as he was seen to have an "unfair" dual role because he is also the island's senior judge. The role of Seigneur, or Lord, of Sark is a hereditary title. Mr Beaumont became the 22nd person to take up the position in 1974. It dates back to 1565 when Queen Elizabeth I granted a fief for the island, on condition that it was kept free of pirates and occupied by at least 40 men who could carry arms.
Scientists at Queen's University in Belfast have discovered a new way of causing breast cancer cells to self destruct. The research used a miniscule gene transport system to deliver a poison directly into cancerous cells. It is hoped the new technique could overcome the side effects of treatments such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Using a Designer Biomimetic Vector (DBV), Dr Helen McCarthy, from Queen's School of Pharmacy, packaged a gene into a nanoparticle 400 times smaller than the width of a human hair, allowing it to be delivered straight into breast cancer cells in the laboratory. This meant that gene (iNOS), which specifically targets breast cancer cells using DBV, would force the cells to produce poisonous nitric oxide. This would either kill the cells outright or make them more vulnerable to being destroyed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Improve As this approach leaves normal healthy breast cells unaffected, this would overcome many of the toxic side effects of current treatments. Further investigation is needed but the technique could be trialled in patients in as little as five years. Dr McCarthy's next step is to turn the nanoparticles into a dried powder that could be easily transported and reconstituted before being given to patients. Dr McCarthy said: "A major stumbling block to using gene therapy in the past has been the lack of an effective delivery system. "Combining the DBV with the iNOS gene has proved successful in killing breast cancer cells in the laboratory. "In the long term, I see this being used to treat people with metastatic breast cancer that has spread to the bones." Dr McCarthy, said patients would receive the targeted treatment 24-hours ahead of chemotherapy. "The treatment would kill the breast cancer cells as well as improving the radiation or chemotherapy," she said.
The London School of Economics has confirmed it is investigating allegations that Colonel Gaddafi's son plagiarised his PhD thesis. Saif al-Islam studied at the LSE from 2003 to 2008, gaining both a Master of Science degree and a doctorate. But allegations have emerged that he used a ghost writer, and copied sections of his thesis. In 2009, he pledged a £1.5m donation to the LSE from the Gaddafi International Charity and Development Foundation. The LSE's involvement with the Libya prompted student protests last week. In a statement, the university  said: "LSE is aware that there are allegations of plagiarism concerning the PhD thesis of Saif Gaddafi. "The School takes all allegations of plagiarism very seriously, and is looking into the matter in accordance with standard LSE procedures." On Monday, LSE director Sir Howard Davies, admitted he felt "embarrassed" by the university's ties with the family of Colonel  Gaddafi. He said the decision to accept research funding from a foundation controlled by Saif Gaddafi had "backfired". He also expressed regret that he had visited Libya to advise the regime about how it could modernise its financial institutions. Sir Howard, who is  a former head of the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and deputy governor of the Bank of England, said the decision to accept £300,000 from the Gaddafi International Charity and Development Foundation had been debated "extensively" within the LSE. Last week the university said it was reconsidering its links with Libya "as a matter of urgency." But that did not appease angry students. Last Wednesday a dozen students stormed his offices, demanding the £300,000 of the £1.5m donation already accepted be "paid back" to the Libyan people. There were also protests outside the School, as students gathered to express their concerns.
The management of a popular Japanese boy band has apologised after they appeared on national television dressed in uniforms resembling Nazis. The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a Jewish human rights organisation based in Los Angeles, said it was shocked and dismayed by the broadcast. The band, Kishidan, wore the uniforms - complete with iron crosses and red armbands - for an interview on MTV. Sony Music Artists said there was no ideological meaning to the outfits. The six male members of the band are famous for dressing up as school boys. But their choice of clothing on MTV Japan's Megavector programme proved far more controversial. The black uniforms resembled those worn by the Nazi SS. The broadcast on 23 February prompted a complaint from the Simon Wiesenthal Center. The Jewish human rights group said it highlighted the ignorance of many young Japanese of German war-time atrocities, as well as those committed by Imperial Japanese forces. Sony Music Artists, a unit of Sony's entertainment subsidiary which manages Kishidan, issued an online apology. "Although it was not meant to carry any ideological meaning whatsoever, we deeply regret and apologise for the distress it has caused Simon Wiesenthal Center and all concerned," it said. People in Asia tend to be less sensitive to the use of Nazi themes than those in the West. In December, a complaint from the Simon Wiisenthal Center caused a major Japanese retailer to stop sales of a Nazi uniform party outfit. In 2007, a school in Thailand apologised after a Nazi-themed parade at its sports day, complete with students performing Hitler salutes.
Archaeologists have found fragments of Stirling Castle's 16th Century outer defences. The discovery was made during work to extend the castle's main shop and ticket office. Historic Scotland said the find would help establish exactly where the defences stood. European experts are believed to have been used to apply the latest Italian military engineering techniques at the castle in the 1540s. They were brought in by Mary of Guise, widow of James V, at a time when intermittent warfare with England made it essential to have fortifications that could protect against heavy artillery in a siege. The defences are shown in a 17th Century engraving by John Slezer. Gordon Ewart, of Kirkdale Archaeology - whose team discovered the walling - said: "We knew the defences would have been in this area, but not exactly where because the Slezer engraving, and remaining military plans, are not entirely accurate. "This is what makes the discovery of physical evidence so important - it helps us identify exactly what existed - and to understand more about what the castle was like in the past." Much was changed at the castle between 1711-14 when the old defences were demolished during a programme of modernisation. Further alterations took place when the esplanade was created in the early 19th Century. Peter Yeoman, from Historic Scotland, said the discovery gave a "tantalising glimpse" of the fortifications created for Mary of Guise and paid for by the French king Henri II. Mr Yeoman said they were probably designed by the Italian engineer Signor Ubaldini, who was working on a similar defensive spur at the time at Edinburgh Castle. He added: "They are of great interest because they were early examples of a changing approach to military engineering, and among the most advanced in the whole of the British isles."
Units have been opened at two north Wales hospitals for people who need extra monitoring after being admitted to emergency departments. The facilities at Ysbyty Gwynedd and Wrexham Maelor hospital are intended to free space at emergency departments and reduce demand for ward beds. Patients will then be monitored for 24 hours before being sent home or admitted to hospital. A similar unit is planned for Ysbyty Glan Clwyd at Bodelwyddan. Dr Linda Dykes, consultant in emergency medicine at Ysbyty Gwynedd emergency department, said: "Staff in the emergency departments provide initial treatment and carry out any necessary tests, following which suitable patients can be transferred to the units." She said this will reduce emergency department overcrowding  as well as reducing the demand for specialty ward beds. "Most patients admitted to the the units will simply require a period of observation before they can go home to be returned to the care of their GP, but a few may need to be admitted to hospital for a longer stay." The units will also provide patients with an alternative to spending many hours in the main emergency department according to Lynn Roberts, senior nurse at Ysbyty Gwynedd emergency department. "[They will provide] a much more appropriate and comfortable environment," she added. Christine Lynes, associate chief of staff for primary, community and specialist medicine said the units would provide a "more effective service". "This is an important development in reducing pressures on emergency departments and ensuring that we keep hospital beds free for those patients who really need them," she added.
A new Tesco Extra superstore in Bridgwater has moved a step closer after Somerset County Council decided to sell land to the company. The Conservative-run authority has agreed to sell its share of the Northgate site, where Sedgemoor Splash swimming pool used to be, for Â£4m. Sedgemoor District Council agreed to sell its share of the land to the company for nearly Â£6m in January. The supermarket giant wants to develop the entire area with offices and shops. It will also develop nearby Brewery Fields by building a play area and water features and new footpaths and cycle paths to the town centre and docks. The county council said selling the land would cover the cost of moving staff who currently work in offices on the Northgate site into district council offices at Kings Square. It also said the move would save money as well as helping to improve an area of Bridgwater. The Conservative-led district council will also receive Â£1m to make up for losing one of its car parks. Campaign group Bridgwater Forward said the town did not need another supermarket as the site was next to a Sainsburys and an Asda, and a leisure centre should be built there to replace Sedgemoor Splash. It is hoped a new pool will be built at Chilton Trinity school in the town. Tesco has 12 months to apply for planning permission for the development.
The man who assassinated US Democratic senator and presidential hopeful Robert Kennedy has been denied parole. Sirhan Sirhan says he does not remember shooting Kennedy at a Los Angeles hotel in 1968 on the day he won the California Democratic presidential primary. Sirhan, a Palestinian Christian, was convicted in 1969 of murder. The California parole board said it was his 13th effort to win release; he will be considered again in five years. Early in the morning of 6 June 1968, Kennedy had narrowly won the Democratic presidential primary election in California. After giving a victory speech to supporters at the Ambassador Hotel, Kennedy entered the kitchen to exit the hotel when six shots rang out, fatally wounding him. Five others were injured but survived. Rosey Grier, a former professional football player and member of Kennedy's entourage, and another man tackled the gunman and fought off a mob that lunged at him. Kennedy was the younger brother of President John F Kennedy, who was killed by an assassin's bullet in November 1963. Sirhan was sentenced to death in April 1969 but that sentence was commuted in 1972 when the US Supreme Court temporarily banned capital punishment. "Every day of my life, I have great remorse and deep regret," Sirhan, 66, told parole commissioners during a four-hour hearing on Wednesday at Pleasant Valley State Prison in Coalinga, the Associated Press reported. He begged for release, saying he wanted to "get lost in the woodwork" and live out the rest of his life. He also said he expected he would be deported to Jordan, from where he immigrated, if released and would accept that.
Footballer Gary Neville's controversial plans for an eco-friendly "Teletubbies" house have been given the go ahead by Bolton Council. The former Manchester United captain wants to build the futuristic four-bedroom property on greenbelt moorland between Bolton and Bury. The partially-underground house was labelled a "Teletubbies" home because of its petal-shaped design. The planning committee approved the development by 12 votes to nine. The application will now be referred to the Government Office for the North West for consideration. The 36-year-old plans to have the kitchen in the flower's stigma, with its petals being bedrooms, bathrooms, a garage, a children's play area and a swimming pool. The planning application was turned down when it went before the planning committee last June. Officers from Bolton Council recommended its approval because of "its exceptionally high quality of design" and "sensitive relationship with the surrounding landscape". But committee members ignored the report's advice and voted 14-6 to refuse the application. The application was re-submitted with the height of a wind turbine lowered. A council spokeswoman said: "The committee has approved the plans and the application will now be referred to the Government Office for the North West (GONW) for consideration. "Should GONW consider it justified the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government has the power to intervene, and call in the application for him to consider. "However, if the scheme is approved by GONW and the scheme is not called in for review, then the application will be referred back to the council. The Director of Development and Regeneration will then ratify the decision, under delegated powers."
A court in Brazil has approved a controversial hydro-electric project in the Amazon rainforest, overturning an earlier ruling. Last week a judge blocked construction of the Belo Monte dam, saying it did not meet environmental standards. But a higher court on Thursday said there was no need for all conditions to be met in order for work to begin. Critics say the project threatens wildlife and will make thousands of people homeless. The Monte Belo dam is a cornerstone of President Dilma Rousseff's plan to upgrade Brazil's energy infrastructure. Controversial plan Licences still have to be granted for the actual building of the plant, but in January, Brazilian environment agency Ibama gave the go-ahead to clear land at the site. The government says the dam is crucial for development and will create jobs, as well as provide electricity to 23 million homes. The 11,000-megawatt dam would be the third biggest in the world - after the Three Gorges in China and Itaipu, which is jointly run by Brazil and Paraguay. It has long been a source of controversy, with bidding halted three times before the state-owned Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco was awarded the contract last year. Celebrities such as the singer Sting and film director James Cameron have joined environmentalists in their campaign against the project. They say the 6km (3.7 miles) dam will threaten the survival of a number of indigenous groups and could make some 50,000 people homeless, as 500 sq km (190 sq miles) of land would be flooded.
The main broadcasters - Radio Bangladesh and Bangladesh Television (BTV) - are state-owned and government-friendly. TV is the most popular medium, especially in cities. BTV is the sole terrestrial network. Popular satellite and cable channels and Indian TV stations have large audiences. State-run radio covers almost the entire country. BBC World Service in English and Bengali can be heard on 100 MHz FM in Dhaka. Newspapers are diverse, outspoken and privately-owned. English-language titles appeal mainly to an educated urban readership. Media outlets tend to be polarised, aligning themselves with one or other of the main political factions. In 2014, the government prompted concern from media freedom advocates by issuing a policy banning TV and radio stations from broadcasting material deemed to harm the image of the armed forces and law-enforcement agencies impede state security. Around 6.8% of Bangladeshi citizens are online (InternetLiveStats.com, 2014). US-based Freedom House says there are periodic blocks of YouTube, Facebook and high-profile blogs. A temporary block imposed on Facebook and other platforms in late 2015 was criticised by social media users, while businesses reported a negative effect on trade. Some prominent bloggers, especially those commenting about Islamic fundamentalism, have been murdered for their writing. Bloggers and social media users have been arrested on blasphemy-related charges.
As fighting inside the country intensifies, Libya's links to the net appear to have been completely severed. Net monitoring and security firms are reporting that no net traffic is entering or leaving Libyan net space. Renesys said the outage was more than just a "blip" as many sites have been unreachable for more than 12 hours. Net traffic into and out of the country had been intermittent during recent protests but the cut coincided with a push to oust rebels. During the early days of the rebellion in Libya, net access was restricted but in early March net traffic started to pick up in areas no longer under the control of Colonel Gaddafi's government. Graphs of net activity maintained by Google show a steady rise in traffic to its sites throughout this week. In particular, Libyans were making heavy use of YouTube to post images of the conflict. This changed late in the evening of 3 March when net traffic stopped flowing into and out of the troubled nation. Rik Ferguson, senior security advisor at Trend Micro, said the approach to cutting net links was different to that taken by Egypt. While all routers reported that lines to Libya were live, any traffic sent was not reaching its destination and was probably being "blackholed", said Mr Ferguson. Attempts to trace the routes that traffic could take into the country ended a hop short of official Libyan net space, said Mr Ferguson. This meant that not only was Libya cut off from the net, but those inside the country would not be able to send messages or browse sites either.
Forces loyal to Somalia's transitional government have captured a key town near the Kenyan and Ethiopian borders. For the past two years Bulo Hawo has been mainly under the control of the Islamist al-Shabab militia. Government troops, backed by forces from the African Union, also gained ground from the group in the country's capital, Mogadishu. Reports say 50 peacekeepers were killed but the African Union's peacekeeping mission (Amisom) has not confirmed this. Freedom of manoeuvre Maj-Gen Nathan Mugisha of Amisom said his forces had captured the former ministry of defence building in the north of the capital, gaining control of a major al-Shabab base. "By taking these positions we have effectively reduced their freedom of manoeuvre in that sector," Gen Mugisha told Reuters news agency. He said the offensive meant the UN forces now had control of seven districts in the capital, leaving six contested and three under rebel control. The offensive in the town of Bulo Hawo began early in the morning. Dozens of militants were reported to have been killed in the fighting which lasted more than three hours. "We have chased them to an area 40km (25 miles) south of the city," Sharif Abdiwahid Sharif Aden, a spokesman for the pro-government militiamen told Associated Press. Eyewitnesses said Ethiopian troops were also part of the offensive against al-Shabab. Somalia has not had a functioning national government for 20 years. Al-Shabab controls much of southern Somalia and has been fighting interim government forces and the 8,000 AU troops for control of Mogadishu in recent months. The BBC's Will Ross, in Nairobi, says that it is clear the group has been under increased pressure on several fronts. The question now, he says, is whether or not the al-Qaeda-linked fighters have sufficient power to reverse any of their recent losses.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has called on the government of Pakistan to do more to protect its minorities. Dr Rowan Williams said the murder of Pakistan's only Christian cabinet minister, Shahbaz Bhatti, could not be "managed or tolerated". Writing in London's Times, he said Mr Bhatti was a martyr and Pakistan was being blackmailed by extremists. Mr Bhatti was killed in an ambush by Taliban gunmen as he drove away from his mother's home on 2 March. He had been the Pakistan government's only Christian cabinet minister until his assassination in Islamabad. The minister was an outspoken critic of Pakistan's controversial blasphemy laws which Dr Williams, who leads the Church of England and the senior bishop of the worldwide Anglican Church, also attacked in his article. The law carries a death sentence for anyone who insults Islam. Critics say it has been used to persecute minority faiths. Those who supported Mr Bhatti's killing, said Dr Williams, "inhabit a world of fantasy, shot through with paranoid anxiety." Dr Williams claimed there was a faction in Pakistan "wholly uninterested in justice and due process of law, concerned only with promoting an inhuman pseudo-religious tyranny." And he called for a debate in Pakistan about the blasphemy laws, because "part of the problem is the weakening of properly traditional Islam by the populist illiteracies of modern extremism." Mr Bhatti died "for all practical purposes as a martyr," said Dr Williams. "Not simply for his Christian faith, but for a vision shared between Pakistani Christians and Muslims."
A landmark documentary about the Holocaust is to be shown on a satellite TV channel which broadcasts into Iran. Claude Lanzmann's 1985 film Shoah is to be dubbed into Farsi and shown from Monday on the private Pars channel, which broadcasts from Los Angeles. Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has described the Holocaust as a myth and has called for an end to the Israeli state. Satellite TV dishes are illegal in Iran but enforcement is patchy. The film will be shown in 50-minute segments over two weeks. The broadcast is being organised by the Aladdin Project, a Paris-based group which seeks to increase understanding between Muslims and Jews. The Aladdin Project is backed by the UN educational and cultural organisation, Unesco. Mr Ahmadinejad has repeatedly denied the Holocaust, in which six million European Jews were murdered by the Nazis during the Second World War. In September 2009, he described the Holocaust as "a lie based on an unprovable and mythical claim". "The starting point for Aladdin was the total lack of sources of information available in the Arab and Muslim world when faced with [Holocaust] denial," Anne-Marie Revcolevschi, Aladdin's president, told the AFP news agency. As part of the same initiative, Shoah has also been translated into Arabic and Turkish. It will be shown at the Istanbul film festival next month and on the Turkish state TV channel TRT a week later.
US toy manufacturer Mattel has shut its flagship Barbie concept store in Shanghai after just two years. Mattel launched the store in March 2009 - Barbie's 50th birthday -  in an attempt to expand the market for its famous doll into China. The store was spread across six floors, replete with a staircase decorated by 875 Barbie dolls and a Barbie bar. Mattel was hoping to offset falling sales in traditional markets hit by the financial crisis. However sales failed to meet expectations and the firm was forced to cut its targets within the first eight months of the store's existence. "Barbie in the US has a very long history, people grow up with the brand, their parents grow up with the brand, so brand recognition is very high. In China, though, nobody really knew what Barbie stood for," said Ben Cavender, an analyst with China Market Research. Challenging market International firms have been using Shanghai as a test market for their expansion into China and Mattel is not the only retailer to have had difficulty in adjusting to the Shanghai marketplace. In February, electronics retailer Best Buy closed all of its brand name stores in Shanghai and will instead focus on its local Jiangsu Five Star Appliance group of stores. "What it definitely says is that it is a challenging market... for foreign retailers, it is a very hard market to get correct. They either don't change quickly enough or they are not patient enough to be successful here," Mr Cavender said. Mattel said it remained committed to developing the Barbie brand in China and would launch a new campaign across the country later this year.
Gunbattles between rival gangs in a north-eastern Mexican town have left 18 people dead, police say. The Tamaulipas state government said shooting erupted in the town of Abasolo but gave few details. Gunmen in trucks and other vehicles had exchanged fire around the town, reports said. Tamaulipas has been at the centre of a turf war between the Gulf and Los Zetas cartels, which are battling to control lucrative drug smuggling routes. Mexican media say Abasolo has lacked a state police command post for several months. Reports said Tamaulipas residents exchanged Twitter messages about Monday's shootings hours before the bloodshed was confirmed by the state government. Some tweets warned people to stay indoors. The shooting, which began at about 0650 local time on Monday, lasted several hours. In a brief statement, the state government said federal troops and police had been sent to restore order. Abasolo is an agricultural community about 100km (60 miles) from the state capital, Ciudad Victoria, and has a population of about 14,000. Last month, shootings in the nearby town of Padilla also left 18 people dead. More than 34,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence in Mexico since President Felipe Calderon launched an offensive against the drug gangs in late 2006.
A system to keep traffic moving along a busy stretch of the M4 near Newport has begun by varying speed limits in response to road conditions. Initially, the Variable Speed Limit (VSL) will operate west of the Brynglas tunnels as far as junction 28. Sensors in the road detect traffic build-ups and automatically adjust the speed limit to keep vehicles flowing. Speed limit changes are displayed to drivers via electronic signs on the verge of the motorway. From June the system will operate over eight miles between J24 (Coldra) and J28 (Tredegar Park). Tim Shallcross of the Institute of Advanced Motorists said the system was already working well in other parts of the UK, including the M25 near London and the M42 in the Midlands. "The idea is it stops people trying to switch lanes to overtake and it smooths the traffic flow, everybody carries on travelling at a lower speed," he said. "These are mandatory speed limits so if you exceed them then you will be prosecuted." The assembly government said the eight mile stretch of motorway was the busiest road in Wales and suffered from an above average accident rate. Deputy First Minister Ieuan Wyn Jones said: "Ultimately, it will improve connectivity for Wales and this is essential to the economy. "It will not only make for better travelling now, but will also encourage more sustainable travelling in the future." Average speed cameras have been in operation along the stretch of the M4 since September 2009. The cameras trigger penalty notices when the 50mph limit is exceeded. More than 6,500 drivers have been issued with tickets according to figures in December 2010.
Online music service Spotify has announced that it now has one million paying subscribers across Europe. News of the milestone comes as Spotify continues a fund-raising from investors in advance of a launch in the US. The Anglo-Swedish company has 6.67 million users, the majority of whom use a free service subsidised by adverts. Spotify's profitability depends on users switching to premium services that remove adverts and allow listeners to use smartphones. The company announced on its website's blog: "It seems like only yesterday we were hatching ideas for a new music service in a tiny office-cum-apartment with a broken coffee machine. "So it's with a sense of real pride and excitement that we can announce a new milestone today, having welcomed our millionth paying subscriber to the service. " Spotify is in the process of a $100m funding round that analysts estimate values the company at $1bn (Â£616m). The company's plans to launch in the US have been delayed by concerns at the big music labels about the success of its business model. Spotify pays royalties each time a song is played on its service. Last year, it was estimated that the subscriber base represented about 7%-8% of Spotify's total user base. But with one million subscribers, that percentage has risen to about 15%, the company said.
Manchester's main war memorial could be shifted as part of the re-design of its city centre. The Labour-led city council's executive is to consider plans for re-siting the cenotaph in St Peter's Square away from its site next to the tram station. Council leader Sir Richard Leese said the proposal arose from the competition to re-design the square and the proposed Metrolink extension. The final cenotaph site will only be decided after public consultation. The competition brief for re-designing the square had envisioned the cenotaph staying in the same place but during consultations it became clear that it needed a better place. Sir Richard said: "I would stress that the proposal for a sensitive relocation of the cenotaph within St Peter's Square is something which has only been brought forward after careful consultation with veteran's groups, church authorities and other interested parties." He added: "There was a strong consensus that the current site is not ideal and that there is scope to make the cenotaph more of a focal point, in a location better suited to quiet contemplation and with fewer space constraints for remembrance events." The report to be considered by the executive recommends further consultation on the cenotaph proposal and the Metrolink second city crossing route in partnership with the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive (GMPTE).
French police have found stolen jewellery worth 14m euros (£12m; $19m) hidden in a drain in a Paris suburb. Police say 19 rings and three sets of earrings were concealed in a plastic container set into a cement mould at a house in Seine-Saint-Denis. They were part of the spectacular robbery from Paris's luxury Harry Winston boutique in 2008. As many as four armed robbers stole about 85m euros worth of jewellery from the shop. The thieves - two of whom were disguised as women - stormed the shop near the Champs-Elysee in December 2008 and stole nearly all its valuables. They spoke French and another language, seemed well informed and knew the names of some of the staff, police said at the time. In June 2009, police detained and questioned 25 people in connection with the robbery - one of the country's most serious for decades. Nine people were eventually charged, including the suspected ringleader who was already serving a 15-year jail sentence for drug trafficking. A large amount of jewellery and cash had already been found at a house in Seine-Saint-Denis, estimated to be more than three-quarters of the total haul. The latest discovery included one 31 carat ring worth 6m euros. French media say no further arrests have been made although those already in jail have been questioned again. The Harry Winston boutique is situated on the fashionable Avenue Montaigne and attracts a wealthy clientele from around the world, from royalty to film stars.
A Bristol city councillor who called an Asian colleague a "coconut" has had her conviction for racial harassment upheld. Liberal Democrat Shirley Brown used the derogatory remark against Conservative Jay Jethwa at a council debate in 2009. Brown was the first black woman to be elected to the authority. The term coconut has been used to accuse someone of betraying their race by implying that they are brown on the outside but white on the inside. The Conservative Party lodged a formal complaint and Brown was prosecuted. She was given a conditional discharge after being found guilty of racial harassment at Bristol Magistrates' Court in June last year. Speaking after Wednesday's hearing, Greg Foxsmith, Brown's solicitor, said: "She's disappointed with the outcome and she's going to consider the judge's ruling and her legal team are looking into whether there are any further avenues of appeal. "It's been a fairly high profile case for what was a comparatively minor remark. "We are not defending her use of the word, which was clearly inappropriate in a council meeting, but we challenge whether it passed the threshold for criminal conduct." Brown is currently the councillor for the Ashley ward in Bristol but has said she will not stand in May's elections.
The 65th anniversary of the Burnden Park football disaster will be remembered by Bolton Wanderers Football Club on Wednesday. Thirty-three fans were killed and another 400 injured during the second leg of an FA Cup quarter-final tie against Stoke City on 9 March 1946. Some of the 33 dead were crushed against steel barriers which gave way. Others were trampled to death. Play stopped but once the dead and injured had been removed, it continued. Bill Cheeseman was at the game with his sister, who had wanted to see Stoke's Stanley Matthews. "It was such a crush. It was getting dangerous. We were getting squeezed by the people in front and behind. Everyone was pushing," he said. "All of a sudden those that were in front of us seemed to go - all falling down like a pack of cards. "We managed to get out and I was glad about that." They, like many fans, were not aware of the full extent of the disaster until they heard the news. An inquiry led to recommendations that the numbers of spectators allowed into a ground should be limited. The club moved to a new ground, the Reebok Stadium, in 1997. Burnden Park was redeveloped and is now a retail park. A plaque to those who died was unveiled in the Asda store, at the exact site of the disaster, by the late Nat Lofthouse in 2000. Bolton Wanderers' historian Simon Marland said: "We have a memorial book at the Reebok Stadium that will be open today, showing the names of all those people who lost their lives. "We had a piece in the programme in last Saturday's game to keep people aware of the disaster. Obviously there are generations now that aren't aware of what actually happened."
A group which is trying to set up an academy-style school in Bristol has said it is becoming "increasingly frustrated" with the city council. The Bristol Free School wants to use the former St Ursula's School site to run a secondary school. But in a statement it said attempts to hold meetings with Bristol City Council have been "turned down or ignored". Barbara Janke, the Liberal Democrat leader of the council, said their priority was for more primary space. The Free School had planned to use St Ursula's School, which is currently occupied by a primary academy, on a short-term lease. Originally the group behind the plan, Parents Voice, wanted to run an all-through school with ages from four to 16. But when the funding bid was sent to the government in February the school director, Nick Short, said the bid was changed to secondary only because the council wanted to keep them separate. "The Department for Education are well aware of this and of our increasing frustration with the council," the statement added. "We also shared our admissions model with the council in January and invited comments. To date we have received none." Mrs Janke said she has written to the Secretary of State for Education, Michael Gove, for clarification on how the council should proceed. "We have always supported a school in this part of the city and we really do want to see this," she said. "This year we have 120 additional applications for primary spaces in this area than places so we are going to have to open a two-form primary school. "What we want to know is what is proposed for this site."
The daughter of a Conservative council leader has joined the Labour Party in protest at public spending cuts. Kelly Jennings, whose father Harvey Jennings leads Derby City Council, said the government was slashing budgets in the wrong areas nationally and locally. Ms Jennings, 26, a single mother who voted Conservative in the last general election, said cuts were hurting the most vulnerable people. Mr Jennings was quoted as saying his daughter could make her own decisions. The council recently approved budget cuts of almost Â£25m, that could result in 530 staff job losses. This included the closure of six children's centres, reducing some adult support services and increasing charges for burials and parking. At the same time the council is renovating its headquarters at the cost of Â£40m. Ms Jennings said: "I voted for the Conservatives because I thought there was going to be more help for the NHS. "Now they are cutting that off and locally they are cutting off the Sure Start centres which single parents like myself rely on." She said her father "was a bit shocked from what I could tell but he was also pleasantly surprised and wished me well". Derby City Council said it had done all it could to reduce the impact on front-line services.
Oxford's Magdalen Bridge will be open to the public during the city's traditional May Day celebrations for the first time in six years. The bridge has been closed on May Day morning since 2005 after 40 people were injured jumping into the river. Traditionally, thousands of people gather on and around Magdalen Bridge to hear choristers sing hymns at dawn from the tower at Magdalen College. The city and county councils and police have worked to "ensure a safe" event. Last year, about 30 revellers ignored safety warnings and broke through barriers to jump from the bridge. The water is shallow and the county council said the cost to the health service in 2005 was about Â£50,000. Police urged people not to "abuse" the decision to allow pedestrians access this year. Many other events will take place across the city, including morris men dancing in Radcliffe Square, Catte Street and Broad Street. Oxford City Council and the county's cultural development agency, Oxford Inspires, are both working with an event producer responsible for other big occasions in the city. The leader of Oxford City Council, Councillor Bob Price, said: "We have been working closely with the police and Oxfordshire County Council to ensure a safe and enjoyable event with Magdalen Bridge open, as it has traditionally been, and we are delighted that this collaboration has had a successful outcome." Oxford commander, Supt Amanda Pearson, said: "Thames Valley Police supports the decision taken by the council to reopen Magdalen Bridge to the public for this year's May Morning celebrations, and will work closely with our partners to ensure this is done in a safe way. "I would urge people to recognise this decision is one that has been made to further their enjoyment of this unique celebration, and not to abuse it."
Liverpool and Manchester United's young players were involved in a tempestuous FA Youth Cup tie at Anfield on Sunday. Both sides had two men sent off, while three United fans were arrested and six ejected during the quarter-final match. United won 3-2 but Liverpool's Stephen Sama and Conor Coady and United's Paul Pogba and Tyler Blackett saw red. Police took action against the United supporters after they reportedly set off a flare and sang songs about the Hillsborough and Heysel disasters. United manager Sir Alex Ferguson was watching from the stands as  the Reds took a 2-0 lead courtesy of strikes either side of half-time by Adam Morgan. But the controversy started when Liverpool had defender Sama dismissed for a challenge on midfielder Ryan Tunnicliffe in the penalty area. Pogba, the midfielder signed in acrimonious circumstances from French side Le Havre in 2009,  scored from the spot but was shown a second yellow card by referee David Coote for stopping midway through his run-up. Winger Larnell Cole scored the retaken penalty before a double from highly rated forward Ravel Morrison put United 3-2 ahead. United left-back Blackett and Liverpool captain Coady then came together in an off-the-ball clash which left the latter with a bloodied nose and saw both players dismissed. The Red Devils' victory in front of a 12,000 crowd came a week after their 3-1 Premier League defeat by Liverpool at the same ground. That match was marred by confrontations between the two sets of players following challenges by Liverpool's Jamie Carragher on Nani and United's Rafael da Silva on Lucas.
A man from Birmingham is being plagued by police calling at his house in error, due to an address mix-up. Matthew Jillard, of Bordesley Green, said he had been visited by police more than 40 times in the past 18 months, often in the middle of the night. He said police confused his house in Repton Road with a nearby address in Repton Grove. West Midlands Police said it had taken measures to stop it happening again, but Mr Jillard said they had failed. The 38-year-old labourer said in Christmas week police had mistakenly called at his house five times, disturbing the friends and family he had staying with him, including one call at 0300 GMT and one at 0500 GMT. "I just don't know what to do. Nine out of 10 times they are really apologetic. "When my girlfriend rang Police HQ at Lloyd House the gaffer there said he knew all about it because they had seminars about not getting it wrong. "We used to get post for the address in Repton Grove but that has stopped after we contacted them. "We've put up signs, we've tried to get them to change their records. Some officers have said it is their sat-nav because they're not always that accurate. "I really don't know what more we can do." A police spokeswoman said: "West Midlands Police can confirm that officers have attended an incorrect address in Repton Road on several occasions. "Officers have been in regular contact with the occupier to apologise for the mistakes. A number of measures have been put in place to stop this from happening again."
Chinese prosecutors are reported to be ready to put 24 people on trial for a fire in a high-rise apartment block in Shanghai, which killed 58 people. Most of those killed were residents of the building, which was being renovated when fire engulfed it last November. State media said local government officials, construction executives, and some workers would face charges. Officials have been accused of breaking safety practices by turning a blind eye to the rules in exchange for bribes. The fire on 15 November was initially blamed on careless unlicensed welders setting alight the netting around the building. Most of the victims suffocated from the smoke and fumes; another 71 people were injured. The reports in the China Daily and the Shanghai Daily newspapers did not say when a trial might take place. The fire had raised questions about how corrupt relationships between senior figures in the construction companies and in government bodies might have contributed to the lack of safety on site. The Shanghai Prosecutors' Office Director, Chen Xu, said on Monday that some of the executives whose roles are now under the spotlight worked for the Jingan District Construction Group. This was the general contractor in charge of renovating the 28-storey building. China's work safety officials have blamed the fire on illegal contracting, unsafe materials and poorly supervised, unqualified workers. The State Council - China's cabinet - ordered a nationwide overhaul of fire prevention measures after the blaze. One of China's commercial hubs, Shanghai has some 20 million residents and at least 5,000 high-rise blocks.
Royal Dutch Shell has set out "ambitious" production targets as it embarks on a fresh wave of investment to meet soaring demand for oil and gas. The world's second-largest publicly-listed oil and gas giant said it would invest $100bn (Â£62.4bn) over the next four years on new projects. During a strategy briefing, Shell set a target of producing 3.7 million barrels of oil and gas per day for 2014. This is a 12% rise, and comes amid surging demand from emerging markets. Chief executive Peter Voser said: "We have made good progress in 2010. Our profitability is improving and we are on track for our growth targets. There is more to come from Shell." The company has 20 new projects under construction, which will add more than 800,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Final investment decisions on another 10 key projects would be made over the next year or two, Mr Voser said. The Anglo-Dutch company almost doubled its profits to $18.6bn last year thanks to higher oil prices. The results contrasted with those of its troubled rival BP, which recorded its first annual loss for nearly two decades due to clean up costs following the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. Meanwhile, Mr Voser said Shell's three oil refineries in Japan were not damaged and were still operating following the earthquake. He said Shell was sending extra supplies of gas to help make up the energy shortfall from damaged nuclear power generation.
The Ministry of Defence is spending more than three million pounds decontaminating the former Fort George army base in Londonderry. It has been in continuous use since World War II and is polluted with heavy oils and diesels, as well as small amounts of heavy metals. Japanese knotweed, which can undermine foundations, is also present. Work on cleaning up the 14 acre site is expected to start later in the summer and finish in 2012. Lawrence McCullough, the development manager at Fort George, said it was normal for a site which had been used as a shipyard and military base for many years to have some pollution. "Contamination on the site consists mainly of heavy oils and diesels and small bits of very dangerous chemicals like arsenic," he said. "It's a site that has to have work done to clean it up to make it suitable for future use. As part of the planning requirements we have to do it." A plant that needs to be disposed of along with the hazardous waste is also present on the site. "Japanese knotweed can be dealt with and will be dealt with," Mr McCullough said. "It will be sifted and burnt. "It's a painstaking operation, but if it's left untreated it can return and undermine foundations of the buildings and cause considerable damage to buildings in the future." He said that the MoD funding for cleaning up the site was a result of a commitment the ministry had made in 2001 when it gave up Fort George.
An accident report has raised concerns about watchkeeping on a ferry and boat which were involved in a collision which led to a teenager's death. Daniel McNeil, 16, from North Shields, died after the incident involving the Scottish Viking and the Homeland prawn boat off the Borders coast last August. The report said both crews had not determined at an early stage if there was a risk of collision. It said actions had now been taken to tackle the safety concerns raised. The Marine Accident Investigation Branch report said the Homeland had left Eyemouth harbour at about 1845 BST on the evening of the collision. The Scottish Viking had left Rosyth headed for Zeebrugge about an hour and a half earlier. They collided at about 1945 BST a few miles off St Abb's Head in good visibility. The Homeland quickly capsized and Mr McNeil's body was lost at sea before being recovered nearly three months later. The MAIB report has concluded a number of factors led to the collision. It said watchkeeping on the ferry did not monitor or plot the path of the Homeland sufficiently and, once a risk of collision was deemed to exist, failed to take sufficient action to avoid it. It added the crew of the Homeland did not recognise the risk of collision until it was too late to take effective action. The investigation also identified "complacency and lack of precautionary thought" on the Scottish Viking as well as "ineffective implementation of the company's navigation policy and procedures". Concerns were highlighted about "restricted all-round visibility from the aft deck" on the prawn trawler as well as "conflicting task priorities and possible lack of watchkeeping proficiency". However, it added that in light of actions taken following the accident, it had no safety recommendations to make.
Actor Jamie Bell's casting in a new film was partly due to his links to the ancient tribe his character represents, the movie's director has said. Bell plays slave Esca in The Eagle, which opens in UK cinemas this month. Director Kevin MacDonald said Esca's tribe, the Brigantes, once lived in the actor's native north of England. Scotsman MacDonald joked on BBC Radio Scotland's Movie Cafe that Bell was typecast as a Brigante in the Roman Legion film because of the connection. The director, who grew up near Loch Lomond, said the decision to cast an American in the lead role as Roman soldier Marcus Aquila was also deliberate. He said Hollywood films of the 1930s and 40s cast English actors as Romans, drawing a link with the British Empire while Americans were given roles as freedom fighters. MacDonald said: "It made sense back in the 30s, but who is the empire of the world today? The empire is Amercia. It is culturally dominant." The director said Channing Tatum, who plays Aquila, also had the look of a "marine, or GI in a small fort" in Afghanistan's Helmand Province. The Eagle also stars Donald Sutherland and Mark Strong and is an adaption of a book by Rosemary Sutcliff about the mystery of the missing Ninth Legion. Some of the scenes were shot around Achiltibuie and Old Dornie, near Ullapool. Locals also had roles as extras.
Cumberland sausage has been successful in its bid to be made only in Cumbria. It now ranks alongside the likes of Champagne, Parma ham and Greek feta cheese in having Protected Geographical Indication (PGI) status under EU law. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said the move would guarantee its heritage and be a major boost for Cumbria's butchers. Other protected UK food and drink products include Cornish clotted cream and Stilton cheese. To display the PGI mark, the sausage must be produced, processed and prepared in Cumbria and have a meat content of at least 80%. Recipes vary from butcher to butcher, but must include seasoning and be sold in a long coil. Food minister Jim Paice said: "We're justly proud of British food and I'm delighted to welcome traditional Cumberland sausage as the first of our many fine sausages to win protected status. "This should be a significant boost to Cumbrian producers, who will now be able to prove that their product is the real thing." He added: "Today's achievement is a tribute to all the hard work led by John Anderson, the force behind the Cumberland Sausage Association, who sadly died last year." Peter Gott, of the Cumberland Sausage Association, said: "This is a great milestone for the county and a well deserved place in England's food history for a truly sensational, diverse food product."
One of South Africa's most prominent anti-apartheid activists, Cyril Ramaphosa, is to take over the McDonald's fast-food chain in the country, it has been announced. Mr Ramaphosa was at one point seen as the man likely to succeed Nelson Mandela as president in 1999 but he instead entered the world of business. He told reporters that the deal would help to create jobs locally. McDonald's opened its first South African restaurant in 1995. But analysts say it has struggled due to tough competition from existing fast-food chains. Chris Gilmour, an analyst in Johannesburg, said he believed McDonald's had also misread the local market when it opened restaurants that were too large and expensive for potential franchise-holders to operate, the AP news agency reports. Mr Ramaphosa has been awarded a 20-year agreement to run the 145 McDonald's restaurants in South Africa. McDonald's and Mr Ramaphosa did not say how much the deal is worth. The former activist headed the African National Congress delegation which began talks with the apartheid regime - leading to the end of minority rule in 1994. He is now one of South Africa's richest businessmen. As former chairman of the Black Economic Empowerment Commission, he was closely involved in the government programme to transfer wealth and economic assets to the black population. Mr Ramaphosa said he was honoured at the opportunity and would "focus on satisfying our customers, developing our people and maximizing business opportunities". McDonald's believes Mr Ramaphosa could turn round the company's fortunes in the country, saying he is a businessman familiar with South Africa's dynamics and market conditions. "We are excited about the new relationship between McDonald's and Cyril Ramaphosa," said Dave Murphy, division president Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa. McDonald's is said to be is the largest fast-food business in the world.
A British man faces extradition to France for questioning over the murder of a film-maker. Former journalist, Ian Bailey, 53, is wanted by authorities in Paris over the killing of Sophie Toscan du Plantier, 39, who was beaten to death in west Cork in 1996. On Friday a judge in Dublin's High Court ruled he would make an order for Mr Bailey's surrender to authorities in France. He denies any involvement in her death. Mr Bailey was arrested twice by gardai in connection with the murder investigation but he was never charged. Ms Toscan du Plantier was found dead outside her holiday home at Toormore, near Schull, two days before Christmas 1996. Under French law, authorities can investigate the suspicious death of a citizen abroad but cannot compel witnesses to go to Paris for questioning. Investigating magistrate Patrick Gachon was appointed by officials in Paris to conduct an inquiry into Ms Toscan du Plantier's violent death after the Director of Public Prosecutions in Ireland announced nobody would be charged. A European arrest warrant was issued for Mr Bailey. During a two-day hearing in December 2010 barrister Martin Giblin, senior counsel for Mr Bailey, argued there has been no new evidence against him to support an extradition. He also maintained the application was an insult to the Irish state and the DPP, who has repeatedly directed that no prosecution be taken. Manchester-born Mr Bailey, a recent law graduate, lives in Schull with his partner. He worked as a journalist in Gloucester and Cheltenham before moving to Ireland in 1991.
Police are investigating the death of a teenage boy from south Devon after he was injured on a school ski trip in France. Kieran Brooks, 14, from Newton Abbot, died on Thursday morning at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital. He had been in a coma following the accident in the resort of Chatel on 23 February. The Torquay Boys' Grammar School pupil was injured when his equipment became trapped in a chair lift. His fellow pupils have been informed of his death, the school said. Kieran was with a group from the school on a half-term trip when his equipment snagged in the chair lift, restricting his airway and causing him to choke. He was airlifted to hospital in Annecy where medical staff tried unsuccessfully to bring him out of his coma. Kieran was flown back to the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, in Exeter, on 5 March. A Devon and Cornwall Police spokesperson said: "He passed away peacefully with his family around him." The police force is now investigating Kieran's death on behalf of HM Coroner. The spokesperson said their enquiries would involve liaising with the French authorities but that, at this time, it was not being treated as a criminal inquiry. Torquay Boys' Grammar head teacher, Roy Pike, said poems had been read out and music that had been especially composed for Kieran had been played at assemblies. He said: "You can imagine the devastation across the school. "Our condolences go out to his parents."
A shortage of hospital consultants has left a health trust in Lincolnshire paying £20m for emergency cover. The United Lincolnshire Hospitals Trust faced the bill for filling its vacant consultant posts over the past financial year. The trust had an overspend of £14m in its £384m budget for the past year. It has 22 consultancy vacancies, but five new consultants have been recruited while another six positions were being advertised, the trust said. Roswyn Hakesley-Brown from the Patients' Association said it was a problem that needed to be addressed quickly. "They are already in deficit in relation to their existing budget... money is going to be reduced in terms of front-line services to patients and the impact on patients could be considerable." A trust statement said: "Over the past 12 months we have actively engaged with international recruitment initiatives to help recruit to our hard-to-fill posts, including those in A&E, paediatrics, haematology and emergency medicine. "We have significantly reduced the number of consultant vacancies in our hospitals over the past few months, and are continuing to recruit to consultant posts in the coming months." Dr Mark Porter, chairman of the British Medical Association's consultants committee, said the current shortage of hospital consultants was probably "a blip" and should resolve itself. "From time to time you are going to get an occasional mismatch … but that will probably resolve itself in a short while … just by the swings and roundabouts of the way that planning for workforce graduates goes." Unison representative David Kirwan said the main problem facing the trust was that it cannot attract enough consultant candidates because of budget constraints. The trust has three main hospital sites in Grantham, Lincoln and Boston.
Mexico's interior ministry has published a guide on how to reduce the use of sexist language in a nation renowned for its machismo. The Manual for the Non-sexist Use of Language is being distributed to government offices across Mexico. It seeks to reduce comments that enforce gender stereotypes, as well as the default use of the masculine form in the Spanish language. The manual was written by a body that tackles violence against women. In its introduction, the manual describes itself as "a tool to familiarize federal public workers with the use of non-sexist strategies in the Spanish language". It discourages the use of phrases such as: "If you want to work, why did you have children," and: "You are prettier when you keep quiet". It also advises against referring to women as possessions, as in phrases such as "Pedro's woman". The manual says workers should avoiding using the masculine form in the Spanish language when it is not appropriate. "It is very common for us to use the masculine without knowing the gender of the people we are referring to or - even more incoherently - to use masculine adjectives or professional titles even when we know we are talking about a woman," it explains. The document was drawn up by the National Commission to Prevent and Eradicate Violence Against Women, Conavim. On International Women's Day on 8 March the Mexican government acknowledged that "insults and harassment" of women remained a problem. On the same day, women's groups protested against an increase in murders of women because of their gender, a phenomenon known in Mexico as femicide.
Two soldiers from 1st Battalion Irish Guards have been killed in an explosion in Afghanistan, six days before they were due to return to the UK. The Ministry of Defence said the soldiers died on Wednesday in an explosion in central Helmand province. The vehicle the soldiers were travelling in was hit by a roadside bomb as they returned to base from an operation with Afghan forces aimed at disrupting insurgent groups. The soldiers' families have been told. The soldiers and Afghan forces had searched a number of compounds in the Nahr-e Saraj district before the blast. Spokesman for Task Force Helmand Lt Col Tim Purbrick said: "On completion of the operation, their patrol had just left an Isaf base in order to return to their own camp - to commence their handover to the next unit before they were due to return home in six days - when the vehicle in which the two soldiers were travelling was struck by an improvised explosive device. "Both men were recovered to an Isaf base, however, tragically, both had lost their lives." The deaths take to 362 the total number of UK military personnel to have died since operations in Afghanistan began in 2001.
Calls have been made for a new bank holiday to be introduced on 14 October called Hastings Day. Hastings Borough Council leader, Jeremy Birch, wants it introduced to mark the date of the Battle of Hastings in 1066. The call comes after ministers outlined plans to scrap the May Day bank holiday and move it to St George's Day in April or Trafalgar Day in October. Mr Birch wants the new holiday in addition to May Day as it is the date of the town's biggest festival. He has written to Tourism Minister John Penrose explaining that the Jack-in-the Green event on the May Day bank holiday, which celebrates morris dancing, is very important because it attracts 20,000 people and generates Â£5m for businesses. He said: "Our visitor economy would suffer greatly if the May Day bank holiday were to be moved, as he suggested. "That doesn't mean that we wouldn't welcome another late season holiday and I have suggested 14 October for that. "I told the minister that the date is known locally as Hastings Day - already the date of the fateful Battle of Hastings in 1066." The proposal to move the May Day bank holiday is part of the the Department of Culture, Media  and Sport's (DCMS) tourism policy. It is hoped it would lengthen the tourist season and attract more visitors to the UK. The DCMS said it was consulting on the plans. In a statement it said: "Some suggestions include creating a new St George's Day holiday in England, or a UK Day bank holiday in the autumn half term. "However the consultation will allow new suggestions to be made."
Long-running BBC One sitcom My Family, starring Robert Lindsay and Zoe Wanamaker, has been axed. The 11th series of the show - which depicts the comic trials of a modern family - will be aired on BBC One later this year and will be its last. "Now that all the Harper children have fled the nest we feel it's time to make room for new comedies," said BBC One controller Danny Cohen. Its two stars would remain "part of our BBC One comedy family", he added. "In Robert Lindsay and Zoe Wanamaker we are proud to have had two of Britain's finest comic actors," said Cheryl Taylor, the BBC's comedy commissioning controller. She said "almost a generation of British children has grown up with the Harper brood", who have been played by actors including Kris Marshall and former EastEnder Daniela Denby-Ashe. The 10th series of the programme, shown last summer, attracted an average audience of 4.6 million viewers. In a recent interview Lindsay said he was "amazed by the public's love for the series". "When Kris Marshall left in 2005 I was convinced that was it. But somehow Zoe and I have kept the essence of it together," he told the Daily Telegraph. The sitcom, which first went out on BBC One on September 2000, was created by Fred Barron. The US producer and writer had previously worked on Seinfeld and The Larry Sanders Show and imported such American production methods as salaried writers and exclusive use of the studio during the production period. Barron said Lindsay's character - grumpy dentist Ben Harper - had been inspired by his own father. According to the BBC, the programme addressed issues such as single parenthood, sexuality, drugs and race and was "less fluffy than is often thought".
Plans for a controversial housing strategy for Newmarket have been ruled "legally flawed" by the High Court. Critics said the Forest Heath District Council's Core Strategy Development Plan would destroy the unique, horse-friendly character of the town. Racehorse owner Lord Derby wanted to build about 1,200 houses, a hotel, park and ride scheme and a retail park on the 160-acre Hatchfield Farm site. Mr Justice Collins said an EU planning directive had not been complied with. The judge quashed the proposed central housing policy of the core strategy as it affects Newmarket. He said a strategic environmental assessment did not contain all the relevant information. Forest Heath District Council had adopted the new housing strategy in May last year. The council was refused leave to appeal. Lord Derby had supported the new strategy and applied for planning permission for the houses, hotel, park-and-ride scheme and retail park. His planning application was refused, but the appeal process is continuing and could be affected by the High Court's decision. Previously racehorse trainers and prominent figures in the racing world had said the extra traffic caused by the development would make it unsafe for the 3,000 horses that cross Newmarket's roads each day. They also said urban development would ultimately lead to the demise of Newmarket as a racing town. Lord Derby said he believed the development was the best way to meet targets for new homes, and the last thing he intended to do was threaten the town.
You can find details of how you can get in touch with anyone at BBC in Newcastle below. We welcome your comments, stories, pictures and feedback on our output. We will presume that we may quote what you say, unless you ask us not to. It would also help if you could include telephone numbers where you can be reached. We can't promise always to reply individually, but we will be very pleased to read what you have to say. Text a radio show: 81333, and start your message with the word "BBC". You will be charged at your standard message rate. Write to: BBC Newcastle, Broadcasting Centre, Barrack Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE99 1RN (For directions to BBC Newcastle please use: NE2 4NS on your sat nav) Write to: BBC Look North, Broadcasting Centre, Barrack Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE99 2NE Write to: BBC Tyne & Wear, Broadcasting Centre, Barrack Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE99 1RN To make a complaint about a BBC programme or website, visit the BBC Complaints site at bbc.co.uk/complaints/. To provide some feedback about a BBC programme or website, visit the BBC Feedback site at bbc.co.uk/feedback/. To find out more about other BBC programmes or websites, call the BBC Information Line on 03700 100 125.
Boatloads of migrants fleeing fighting in Libya are beginning to arrive in southern Italy, say officials. The region is already struggling to cope with a huge influx of migrants arriving from Tunisia. Since January, at least 15,000 migrants have arrived, many of them landing on the tiny island of Lampedusa which is struggling to cope. Thousands of people are living in basic camps on the island, leading to health concerns and rising local tensions. "Until now the only migrants to arrive in Lampedusa were Tunisians," said Laura Boldrini a spokeswoman for the UN's refugee agency. "This is the first boat coming from Libya with people fleeing the military escalation, the vendettas and the retaliation attacks," she said. Overnight on Saturday, a boat carrying some 300 migrants was escorted by the Italian coastguard to Linosa,  an even smaller island some 50 km (35 miles) north of Lampedusa. The passengers were mostly Somalis, Eritreans and Ethiopians and included a woman who had just given birth - she and the baby were flown to Lampedusa for medical care. Several other boats from Libya, each carrying hundreds more migrants, are expected to reach Italy within hours. Officials on Lampedusa, which is less than 160km from the Tunisian coast, have moved thousands of migrants to reception centres on the mainland, but some 5,000 remain. The island's mayor has said he is desperate for help to relieve pressure on the island's very limited resources. Local people have said they are afraid of an outbreak of disease in the camps. The Italian government has appealed to the international community for help.
Cult crime series The Professionals is to return in a new film version that will show how Bodie and Doyle came to work for British security unit CI5. The project - co-produced by Lionsgate UK and Eighth Wonder Pictures - is expected to start shooting on location in the UK later this year. Casting has yet to be announced in what has been described as "an exhilarating, emotionally-charged action-thriller". Lewis Collins and Martin Shaw starred in the original 1970s TV show. "The Professionals was such an iconic British crime series that it's a fantastic opportunity for Lionsgate to be able to bring it to the big screen for the first time," said Zygi Kamasa of Lionsgate UK. "This production will combine the wit and fast-paced action of the original TV series but also completely reinvent it for a new, modern audience." The original Professionals - which also featured Gordon Jackson as CI5 chief George Cowley - ran from 1977 to 1983. "To take this 70s TV classic and launch it onto the big screen is a dream come true," said Eighth Wonder's Richard Whelan. Created by writer Brian Clemens, The Professionals was famous for its propulsive Laurie Johnson theme tune and the cars its characters drove and occasionally jumped over. The late Edward Woodward appeared in a short-lived TV remake - CI5: The New Professionals - that aired on Sky One in 1999.
Plans to sell off 17th Century paintings which hang in the home of the Bishop of Durham have been shelved after a £15m donation. Church Commissioners said selling works by Spanish Baroque artist Francisco Zurbaran would have funded Church efforts in poorer areas. But the donation by investment manager Jonathan Ruffer means the paintings can stay in Auckland Castle. Commissioners also want the castle to become a major tourist attraction. The paintings, which depict Jacob and his sons, have hung in Auckland Castle, in a room specifically designed and built for them, for 250 years. In a statement, the Church Commissioners said: "It is intended that Auckland Castle shall become a leading public heritage site, bringing tourism and economic regeneration to the North East. "The proposals have been made possible thanks to a £15m donation by investment manager Jonathan Ruffer. "Discussions are now continuing with Durham County Council, the National Trust, the Department for Media, Culture and Sport, the Art Fund and the National Gallery about the broader future for Auckland Castle." Nicholas Penny, director of the National Gallery, said: "It is excellent news that the Zurbarans remain in their historic home and that the castle will be more accessible to the public. "We hope to be able to support this exciting venture in the future with loans from the National Collection." Dr Richard Chartres, acting chair of the commissioners, said: "Jonathan Ruffer's generosity has made that rarest of scenarios possible. "There is now an opportunity to create a leading arts and heritage centre in the North East." Mr Ruffer's contribution was made through a new charitable trust called the Zurbaran Trust. The Marlborough and Cambridge-educated financial expert will continue to chair his firm, but plans to spend more time in the North East helping people.
A killer whale that drowned its trainer has returned to public performances at SeaWorld in Florida. Dawn Brancheau died in February 2010 after the whale, named Tilikum, dragged her underwater by her hair and repeatedly struck her. SeaWorld officials said taking part in shows was important for the 12,000lb (5,454kg) orca bull's health. But new safety rules mean the park's trainers can no longer enter the water to perform tricks with the whales. The trainers now stand behind metal bars at the edge of the pool, occasionally stroking the whales and hand feeding them. The park's animal training curator, Kelly Flaherty Clark, said the decision to return Tilikum to the "Believe" shows had been made in the whale's interests. "Participating in shows is just a portion of Tilikum's day, but we feel it is an important component of his physical, social and mental enrichment," he said in a statement. "He has been regularly interacting with his trainers and the other whales for purposes of training, exercise and social and mental stimulation, and has enjoyed access to all of the pools in the Shamu Stadium complex." The investigation into Ms Brancheau's death ruled that she died from drowning and traumatic injuries, inflicted as she performed with Tilikum in front of an audience. The whale has also been linked to two other deaths. An inquest into the 1991 death of a trainer in Canada ruled Tilikum and two other whales had prevented her from leaving their tank after she fell in. And at SeaWorld Orlando, in 1999, a 27-year-old man was found dead alongside the whale. An inquest ruled that he had died of hypothermia, but officials also said it appeared Tilikum had bitten the man and torn off his trunks, apparently believing he was a toy to play with.
Campaigners have welcomed a "historic day" as the South Downs National Park Authority comes into full operation. The authority has taken on its legal powers and will be responsible for all planning within the park. The park, which covers 627 square miles across Sussex and Hampshire, was approved on 31 March 2009 and was officially designated a year later. It is more than a decade since the government announced its intention to designate the area as a National Park. Robert Cheesman, who chairs the South Downs Society, said he was looking forward to helping the authority protect a "very special part of Britain". The park stretches from Winchester in Hampshire to Eastbourne in East Sussex, and includes woodland, heathland, downlands and the white chalk cliffs at Beachy Head. The new park authority expects to deal with about 4,000 planning applications a year. Fifteen local authorities will carry out many of the day-to-day planning services, but the park authority will retain overall control. Margaret Paren, who chairs the authority, said: "This is be a long-awaited and historic day for everyone who loves the South Downs." Supporters will be taking part in a celebratory five-mile walk from East Dean to Birling Gap, near Eastbourne from 1015 BST.
Police in Greece have confirmed they will reopen a case into the death of a Derbyshire teenager who died on holiday in Zante almost three years ago. Matthew Cryer, 17, from Killamarsh, sustained head injuries outside a bar in Laganas on 21 July 2008. A UK coroner concluded Matthew had been unlawfully killed and criticised the Greek authorities for failing to find out how he was hurt. It was initially claimed his injuries had been caused by excessive drinking. Matthew had gone to Greece after completing a college course. He had worked at a Burger King branch in Sheffield to fund his education. The teenager, from Killamarsh, died outside the Cocktails and Dreams nightclub in Laganas. Post-mortem examinations were carried out both in Greece and by a Home Office pathologist in Britain. Matthew had sustained 20 separate injuries and bruising was found on his body. Witnesses told an inquest in Chesterfield in 2009 that Matthew had been violently thrown on to the street by doormen. Matthew's mother, Jo Froud, said she was pleased the Greek police were finally re-opening the case. "The coroner was very critical at the inquest. He said it beggared belief how the investigation was treated in this case," said Ms Froud. "In this country we would have been looking at a prosecution, there would not have been all these issues." Matthew's family and friends have campaigned for the case to be re-investigated since his death in 2008, even writing to the Greek ambassador for help and staging a protest outside the Greek Embassy in London.
Pakistan is one of the world's deadliest countries for journalists. Intelligence agents and members of banned militant organisations are behind "serious threats" to reporters, says Reporters Without Borders. The government uses legal and constitutional powers to curb press freedom and the law on blasphemy has been used against journalists. The broadcasting regulator can halt the carriage of foreign TV channels via cable, particularly Indian or Afghan ones. Television is the dominant medium, and there are dozens of private channels. Most viewers watch them via cable; there are no private, terrestrially-broadcast stations. State-run Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV) is the sole national terrestrial broadcaster. More than 100 private FM radio stations are licensed. They are not allowed to broadcast their own news. Scores of unlicensed FM stations are said to operate in the tribal areas of North-West Frontier Province. Usually operated by clerics, some of the outlets are accused of fanning sectarian tension. Pakistan's press is among the most outspoken in South Asia, but its influence is limited by a low level of literacy. Nearly 10% of Pakistani citizens use the internet (ITU, 2012). The rapid growth in  mobile phone use is boosting the delivery of online content. Filtering targets content deemed blasphemous, secessionist, anti-state, or anti-military, OpenNet Initiative reports. The regulator has imposed temporary blocks on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other sites over material it says is "sacrilegious". Pakistani users active on Twitter include senior politicians and sports and entertainment stars.
A woman who attacked a painting by Paul Gauguin hanging in the National Gallery in Washington DC said the French artist was "evil", court records show. Susan Burns pounded Two Tahitian Women and tried to rip it from a gallery wall on Friday, officials said. The 1899 painting, which depicts two women's bare breasts, was behind a plastic cover and was unharmed. She was charged with attempted theft and destruction of property and is being held pending a mental evaluation. On Friday afternoon the accused slammed her hands against the plexiglass cover between the canvas and the frame. A museum security officer intervened and detained her. Ms Burns, 53, from Virginia, told police she thought the painting should be burned, according to court records. "I feel that Gauguin is evil," she was quoted as telling police. "He has nudity and is bad for the children. He has two women in the painting and it's very homosexual." The 94cm by 75.4cm (37in by 30in) oil-on-canvas painting is on loan from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. It went back on display on Tuesday morning. The work depicts two serene, golden-skinned Tahitian women offering a bowl of flowers. "The painting captures Gauguin's mythical idea of Tahiti as a paradise of beautiful, mysterious women," museum curators write. The incident was the first act of vandalism at the museum since the 1970s, when over the course of about five years, one man destroyed a Renaissance-era chair and another defaced 25 works, including by Renoir and Henri Matisse, with a "sharp object", National Gallery spokeswoman Deborah  Ziska told the BBC.
Clothing retailer Jack Wills has been told by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) not to reprint its spring catalogue in its current form. Nineteen people complained that four of the pictures in it were unsuitable for a catalogue targeted at teenagers. The Devon-based company responded that the brand was aimed at university students over the age of 18. But the ASA concluded that the catalogue was sufficiently provocative to present a risk to younger teenagers. The company said that people wishing to receive their catalogue would have had to sign up online or in stores and in either case would have had to confirm that they were over 18. It said that its logo described it as the "University Outfitters" and added that the pictures were supposed to project "a positive, fun and sometimes flirtatious" reflection of student life. Two years ago, the ASA cleared a semi-naked image in the Jack Wills catalogue, saying that it was not provocative enough to present a risk to teenagers or be unsuitable for the target audience. This time though, the ASA adjudication ruled that some of the images went beyond what could be considered to be fun or flirtatious. It was particularly concerned about an image of a topless couple kissing while being sprayed with water.
Reality show Big Brother will return to television screens later this year after Channel 5 signed a two-year deal with its creator, Endemol. The series will begin with a celebrity version in the summer followed immediately by another featuring members of the public. The show was axed in 2009 by Channel 4, which broadcast the final series last August. Channel 5 said it was "hugely excited" to have secured the deal. The series will continue to be filmed at its old home, Elstree Film Studios in Hertfordshire. Channel 5 said Big Brother would form "a key part" of its TV schedule. "The series has previously captivated a decade of television viewers," said Jeff Ford, Channel 5's director of programmes. "We aim to bring Channel 5's energy, optimism and vibrancy to the series." Presenter Davina McCall has previously ruled out returning to host the show. Other shows to have moved channels include: Speaking at the National Television Awards in January, she said: "I think Big Brother has got legs and any channel that picks it up would be a very lucky channel. "But I don't think I'll go back to it. I think I've said goodbye." The show, which had been broadcast by Channel 4 since it began in the UK in 2000, was dropped after director of television Kevin Lygo said the show "had reached a natural end point". Big Brother was a hit with viewers in its early days but had suffered from falling ratings in recent years. The finale of the last series was seen by an average of 4.1 million people - around half of the audience that watched the show in 2002.
A woman has laid flowers at the spot where the remains of her daughter were found in Gloucestershire. Karen Edwards was joined by about 20 friends and family at the site where Becky Godden-Edwards was discovered. They laid flowers and a white teddy bear in tribute to Miss Godden-Edwards, who would have been 29 on Monday. She had been missing for eight years. Her remains were found in a field in Eastleach by police investigating the murder of 22-year-old Sian O'Callaghan. Taxi driver Christopher Halliwell, 47, of Ashbury Avenue, Swindon, has been charged with the murder of Miss O'Callaghan and is due to appear before Bristol Crown Court on Friday. Officers said at a news conference on Tuesday detectives would be questioning Mr Halliwell as part of their inquiries into Miss Godden-Edwards' disappearance. Mrs Edwards wrote on a card: "When you were born and put into my arms, I cried with joy. "I love you so much. But today I am crying for you, my beautiful girl. I loved you the day you were born and I love you even more today. "I was always there for you, my baby girl, words can't be said about how I feel. Sleep tight my darling. Love Mum and Charlie." As the family paid their respects, they stood together with their arms around one another and hugged each other. They stayed at the field at Baxter's Farm for 15 minutes before driving away. Miss Godden-Edwards' family did not initially report her missing to the police as they thought she was living in the Bristol area. It was not until 2007 they contacted the National Missing Persons Helpline.
Myanmar's media have seen a gradual easing of strict state controls imposed after the 1962 military coup. These saw the censorship of everything from poetry to films, as well as criticism of the government. Under reforms introduced since 2011 by a new government, Myanmar has unblocked international news websites, emigre news websites and YouTube. In 2012, it lifted pre-publication censorship for the press and allowed privately-owned daily newspapers to publish. But the state still controls the main broadcasters and publications and has a monopoly on telecommunications. Action taken by the authorities against non-state media in 2014 - including prison terms handed out for a weekly's report about an alleged chemical weapons facility - was at odds with the reformist trend. President Thein Sein said that "if media freedom threatens national security instead of helping the nation, we warn that we will take action under existing laws." Around 48% of households own a TV set. Foreign radio is a key source of information. Outlets include the BBC, Voice of America, US-backed Radio Free Asia and Norway-based online station Democratic Voice of Burma. There were 625,000 internet users by 2014 (InternetLiveStats.com). The main limitations to access are bandwidth and the cost of connections, says Freedom House. Mobiles are a key means of access. Internet users have taken to social media, with Facebook and Viber being popular destinations.
Global food prices fell in March after eight months of rising to record highs, according to the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Its index of global food prices, which measures monthly changes for foods including cereals, meat and sugar, averaged 229.8 points in March, down from February's record of 236.8 points. Unrest in the Middle East and the natural disaster in Japan dented demand for grain, depressing the price. The UN warned the fall could be a blip. A top official at the agency told the Reuters news agency that global food prices were expected to begin rising again soon as demand begins to bounce back. Concepcion Calpe, senior economist at the UN's FAO, said: "We believe that in the next few weeks, and there are already signs of it, prices will rebound." Grain imports have been disrupted for key customers in areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, as well as Japan. Grain is not just used for food, but for livestock feed and biofuels, and demand for all three is rising globally. Soaring oil prices also push food prices higher as they increase the cost of food products and boost demand for biofuels further.
A bell salvaged from a sunken Grimsby trawler has been handed back to the lost men's relatives in a special ceremony. The Laforey sank off the coast of Norway on the 8 February 1954, with the loss of 20 lives. The wreck lay undiscovered until Norwegian divers found the vessel in September last year. The bell has been installed in the town's Fisherman's Chapel as a permanent memorial to the lost crew. Allen Brydges lost his 16-year-old nephew, Tony Craven, who was working on the ship. Mr Brydges said it was the biggest tragedy in Grimsby's fishing history. "It was terrible," he said. "It was the most that were lost on a trawler. "Lots went down before but there were usually 12 or 13 on board, there were 20 on this, it was absolutely devastating." For many years the Laforey lay on the Norwegian Sea bed undiscovered. In September last year, divers Trond Fjellestad and Frode Ellingsund found the wreck near the coastal city of Floro. The divers filmed their findings. Trond Stromgren, a historian from Floro, has researched the Laforey and, along with the divers, will attend a service at Grimsby's fishermen's chapel on Friday. Mr Stromgren said the bell had been so camouflaged under the water that the divers did not even realise what it was. "They found this bell by accident," he said. "It looked like a rock, they cleaned it. "They're good guys. They say the bell must belong to Grimsby."
Some independent traders in a Devon tourist destination fear that business rate increases could force them to close down. Rates for Salcombe's only bakery have risen from Â£9,000 a year to Â£21,000. Others facing rises of 50% say that with increased costs and VAT, they are tempted to sell-up to chain stores. The Valuation Office, which has announced the increases as part of a five-year review, says the Salcombe rates reflect high rental values there. Becky Simpson, who runs a clothes shop in the town, admitted that Salcombe had a reputation as a place for well-heeled visitors, with average house prices of more than Â£500,000. But she said local traders were "not massively well off" and were already being squeezed by rising prices of raw materials and VAT. "We are normal people with normal businesses," she said. "My income is going down and our rates are going up. "We just can't afford it." She said some traders had been made offers from chain stores. "It's tempting to just take the money and run. "In that case Salcombe will become just one big chain store." Ben Holt-Wilson, 37, who runs the Upper Crust bakery in Fore Street, said: "I'm working hard, but I don't seem to be progressing because of the cost of living - these rates and other commodity prices are just going through the roof. "So I feel at the whim and mercy of councillors and government." Business rates are set by a government agency, the Valuation Office. Spokeswoman Alison Gidman said business rates were based on where the property was situated, not what was sold there. Adjoining properties of the same size had the same rateable values. "We don't treat different occupiers in any different way," she said.
The US Navy has fired a laser gun from one of its ships for the first time. Researchers used the high-energy laser (HEL) to disable a boat by setting fire to its engines off the coast of California. Similar systems had previously been tested on land, but moist sea air presented an extra challenge as it reduces a beam's power. The navy said that ship-borne lasers could eventually be used to protect vessels from small attack boats. The US military has been experimenting with laser weapons since the 1970s. Early systems used large, chemical-based lasers which tended to produce dangerous waste gases. More recently, scientists have developed solid state lasers that combine large numbers of compact beam generators, similar to LEDs. Until now, much of the development of HELs has focused on shooting down missiles or hitting land-based targets. The latest round of tests showed its wider possibilities, according to Peter Morrison from the Office of Naval Research. "This test provides an important data point as we move toward putting directed energy on warships. "There is still much work to do to make sure it's done safely and efficiently," he said. While a weaponised system would likely be restricted to military vessels, merchant shipping has also expressed an interest in laser technology. A gun which uses visible laser light to temporarily blind pirates was announced by BAE Systems in 2010. The technology is still being tested, ahead of a commercial launch.
A boulder with three different fossilised dinosaur footprints has been found on an Isle of Wight beach. It provides evidence about life around Brook Bay 130 million years ago. Palaeontologist Dr Steve Sweetman found the 50kg (110lb) rock containing prints of an adult iguanodon, a theropod and a baby iguanodon-like dinosaur. He said: "It is a remarkable fossil providing tantalising evidence of the existence of animals for which we have the merest scraps of bones." The Isle of Wight is internationally renowned for fossils because its habitat provided ideal conditions for dinosaurs to roam. Dr Sweetman, a vertebrate palaeontologist at the University of Portsmouth, explained the rock showed that a large iguanodon plant-eating dinosaur was wandering about in a muddy riverbank leaving deep footprints 45cm wide and 50cm long (17in by 20in). Dr Sweetman said: "There are hundreds of footprints on the beach at Brook Bay but it's extraordinary to find three in one, and the little theropod print is unique. "It was a truly busy place teeming with life and, in the shadow of the large dinosaurs, tiny ones of all shapes and sizes were also thriving," he added. Dr Sweetman sought permission from the beach owners, the National Trust, to remove the specimen before it was washed away. The find will be donated to the island's Dinosaur Isle Museum.
More than 200 applications for street parties to celebrate the royal wedding have been submitted to councils in Wales, latest figures show. Cardiff leads the way with 52 bids to hold events on Friday 29 April when Prince William marries Kate Middleton at Westminster Abbey. There has also been a large number of applications in Rhondda Cynon Taf, Swansea and Neath Port Talbot. Organisers have had to apply for road closures for their events. BBC Wales contacted all 22 local authorities in Wales. Some said the figures for the number of applications were not yet available, and others are still processing applications. Bridgend council has received 16 while Wrexham has 10 and Denbighshire nine. Residents at Severn Grove in Pontcanna, Cardiff, are staging a traditional street party with bunting, balloons and cakes. Terry Phillips, who is helping said: "The community spirit is quite extraordinary. "We are catering for over 100 children. We've invited all the people in the locality." Anthony Parry, who is helping to organise a party in Mold in Flintshire, said they had received permission to close the main High Street for the day. "We are trying to do it on a modern twist - we are not having trestle tables down the middle - we are going more for a hog roast, fish and chips and burgers," he explained. As well as a big screen showing the wedding there will be live bands, a fashion show, children's entertainments and a land train. The day has been made a bank holiday, and Prime Minister David Cameron has called on the UK to "get on and have fun". The newest figures from the Local Government Association reveal there have been 4,000 applications for street parties across Wales and England.
The leader of the Pacific nation of Niue has mounted a robust defence of stamps marking Britain's royal wedding which have a perforated line that splits the happy couple. Premier Toke Talagi admitted the stamps were "unusual" but said they showed Niue was celebrating the marriage. The stamps are sold as a pair for NZ$5.80 ($4.53, Â£2.79), but can be torn down the middle. Prince William's stamp is NZ$3.40 and Kate Middleton's is cheaper at NZ$2.40. The stamps were designed and printed by New Zealand Post. Niue, although self-governing, is in free association with New Zealand. All Niueans are New Zealand citizens and Queen Elizabeth II is their head of state. Ivor Masters, the general manager of stamps and coins at New Zealand Post, said the stamps were collectors' items and so unlikely to be separated for postage. And Mr Talagi said he saw nothing wrong with them. "People indicated the stamps... meant the couple will separate in future. I don't know why they would interpret it that way," he told AFP news agency. "I don't think it means that. I think it means we're very happy celebrating the royal marriage." The stamps might even draw tourists to Niue, he added, because people would want to see where they were from. The royal wedding takes place in London on 29 April.
A collection of 250 artworks by comedian Vic Reeves is opening ahead of an auction he hopes will make some space at his Kent home. Reeves is best known for TV shows Vic Reeves Big Night Out and Shooting Stars, but has said that he considers himself an artist before anything else. "I think everything I do is art. I don't really differentiate between painting, acting or comedy," he said. The exhibition, at The Grand on the Leas in Folkestone, runs to Saturday. Reeves studied art at Sir John Cass College in Whitechapel, east London, and his work includes unusual self-portraits, quirky celebrity paintings, landscapes and distorted animal pictures. "I think putting your imagination on canvas or a television screen is the same thing," he said. "If you've got an idea you have got to have an outlet for it. "So if it's painting, poetry, singing or acting it all comes out somewhere." The comedian lives in Charing, near Ashford, with his wife Nancy Sorrell and their family. He said selling the paintings would be like losing close friends. "But if you have 250 friends you have to weed a few out, don't you?" he said. The exhibition was organised with auctioneer and valuer Michael Hogben, from BBC TV show Bargain Hunt, who met Reeves when he was setting up a performance art piece in a local pub. The art will be auctioned on Saturday with prices starting at £50.
A giant task to re-create one of the world's most famous landscapes using a bucket and spade has started in Belfast. The 18-tonne sand sculpture of the Giant's Causeway is being built not on a beach, but in the middle of a busy shopping centre. Yorkshire-born artist Paul Hoggard has started shaping the first distinctive hexagonal stones in the city's Victoria Centre after spending hours shovelling in his raw materials. "It nearly broke my back," he said. "Eight hours of shovelling, you need to have the fitness of an athlete. But now I'm getting on with the sculpture and can be a little bit more artistic; now I need the skills of a surgeon." Working alongside his wife Remy and a student helper, Hoggard intends to have the huge temporary artwork finished by the end of the week. The sand sculpture was commissioned in conjunction with the National Trust. They hope the model will inspire locals and tourists alike to go and visit the real thing on Antrim's north coast this summer. Mr Hoggard, who now lives on a farm in Bulgaria, has been sculpting full time since first trying his hand at the art form in India 20 years ago. He has more than 1,000 works to his name, in locations all over the world. But like any sand castle, they do not stand for long. "That doesn't bother me," he said. "I am totally dedicated to the process of making it, that's what I love, not the end result. And anyway I always make sure to take a picture when I'm done. "I'm 45 now but I'm still the biggest kid on the beach."
Kate Middleton has been confirmed in the Church of England at a private ceremony carried out by the Bishop of London, the Rt Rev Richard Chartres. Miss Middleton, 29, was baptised when she was five months old. The ceremony, which marks the point where baptised Christians make a firm commitment to their faith, was held on 10 March. Members of the Church of England usually only receive Holy Communion after they have been confirmed. Bishop Chartres will also give the address at Kate and Prince William's marriage ceremony on 29 April. A St James's Palace spokesman said: "Catherine Middleton was confirmed by the Bishop of London at a private service at St James's Palace attended by her family and Prince William. "Miss Middleton, who was already baptised, decided to be confirmed as part of her marriage preparations." The Book of Common Prayer requires that "there shall none be admitted to the Holy Communion, until such time as he be confirmed, or be ready and desirous to be confirmed." William will become Supreme Governor of the Church of England when he succeeds to the throne. He was also confirmed by the Bishop of London, in a ceremony held at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, in March 1997. It was one of the last times the Prince and Princess of Wales were seen together in public before Princess Diana was killed in a car crash in August that year.
Interim president: Michael Kafando Michael Kafando was named acting president after long-serving leader Blaise Compaore resigned in response to a military takeover amid mass protests in October 2014. The veteran diplomat was chosen by a special panel composed of religious, military, political, civil and traditional leaders, following the signing of a charter setting out a year-long transition to elections. Born in 1942 in Ouagadougou, the French-educated Mr Kafanda served as foreign minister from 1982 to 1983, and as permanent representative to the United Nations from 1998 to 2011. He replaced Lt Col Isaac Zida, the head of the presidential guard, as interim leader. Col Zida then became interim prime minister. Col Zida had declared himself acting head of state following Mr Compaore's ouster, overruling army chief Gen Honore Traore, who had initially claimed to lead a transitional government. The opposition, civil society groups, the African Union and the United states condemned the military take-over. Mr Kafando had to face down a serious challenge in September, when the presidential guard, which remained loyal to Blaise Compaore, briefly tried to seize power in a dispute over its proposed integration into the army. Blaise Compaore resigned and fled to Ivory Coast after tens of thousands of people protested against his plans to amend the constitution to extend his 27-year rule. Mr Compaore came to power in a coup in 1987 and subsequently won four presidential elections, the latest in November 2010.
Cuba is facing its worst drought in half a century, with tens of thousands of families almost entirely reliant on water trucks for essential supplies. The drought started two years ago, and reservoirs are now down to a fifth of their normal levels. The government is providing road deliveries of water to more than 100,000 people in the worst affected areas of the capital, Havana. The situation in Havana is compounded by a pipe network in poor condition. The state-run newspaper Granma says up to 70% of water pipes supplying the capital are leaking and in urgent need of repair, the BBC's Michael Voss in Havana says. Residents are having to use buckets and bottles to fill up with water from the road deliveries. "It's completely out of control," one resident, Ana Gomez, said. "Just imagine that you can't wash when you want to, you have to wash when you are able to." Another, Enrique Olivera Gonzalez, said: "As there is no water, you can't wash your clothes, cook, or clean your house." Cubans are hoping the rainy season in May and June will bring some respite. But even a normal rainfall will not be enough to fill up the reservoirs, our correspondent says.
Burundi, one of the world's poorest nations, is struggling to emerge from a 12-year, ethnic-based civil war. Since independence in 1962 it has been plagued by tension between the usually-dominant Tutsi minority and the Hutu majority. The ethnic violence sparked off in 1994 made Burundi the scene of one of Africa's most intractable conflicts. 10.4m population - similar to Belgium 27,816 sq km area - similar to Haiti 50 years life expectancy for men 50 years life expectancy for women $900 GDP per capita - similar to Liberia Pierre Nkurunziza, a former Hutu rebel leader, became the first president to be chosen in democratic elections since the start of Burundi's civil war in 1994. In 2015 Burundi was plunged into its worst crisis since the end of a civil war in 2005, when Mr Nkurunziza's ultimately successful bid for re-election to a third term sparked protests by opposition supporters who said the move was unconstitutional. Operating in a turbulent political climate, Burundi's media are subject to self-censorship and occasional government censorship. In June 2013 President Nkurunziza approved a new media law which critics condemned as an attack on press freedom. The law forbids reporting on matters that could "undermine national security, public order or the economy". Some key dates in Burundi's history: 1890 - The kingdoms of Urundi and neighbouring Ruanda (Rwanda) incorporated into German East Africa. 1916 - Belgian army occupies the area. 1962 - Urundi is separated from Ruanda-Urundi and becomes independent. 1993 - Ethnic conflict claims some 300,000 lives. 2015 - Unrest sparked by president's plans to stand for third term.
Internet giant Google has reported a sharp rise in first-quarter earnings, the first figures with co-founder Larry Page back at the helm as boss. The world's leading search engine reported $6.54bn (Â£4bn) in net revenue in the first quarter, up 29% from $5.06bn the same time a year ago. Google has about a 65% share of the US search engine market and about 90% in Europe. The firm said it would continue "to invest for the long term". Announcing the results, Patrick Pichette, Google chief finance officer, said: "These results demonstrate the value of search and search ads to our users and customers, as well as the extraordinary potential of areas like display and mobile." During the quarter, paid clicks - which measures the number of times people click on Google ads that are sponsored by the advertisers - rose by 18%. Meanwhile, average cost-per-click for its search advertisements increased by about 8% on the same quarter 12 months earlier, and decreased about 1% from the fourth quarter of 2010. However, on some measures Google came in below analysts' expectations. Revenues from the UK were $969m, representing 11% of income in the first quarter of 2011, against 13% in the first quarter of 2010. The firm has been engaged on a staff hiring spree, looking to employ more than 6,000 workers this year, but that has been driving up its costs. "Clearly the company is still in growth mode and for Google that means spending too," said Jordan Rohan, analyst at financial services firm Stifel Nicolaus. He said Google was spending on sales and marketing, and "they've hired 1,900 more people this quarter, which might be a new high". In trading of its shares after the New York Stock Market closed, Google stock fell by 4% to $553.09.
Authorities in France temporarily blocked trains from Italy in an attempt to stop north African migrants from entering the country. Trains were stopped at the border for hours - prompting Italy to launch an official complaint with France. Services were later resumed. Italy has angered France by giving temporary resident permits to thousands of Tunisian migrants. The permits allow them to travel freely in many European countries. The Italian foreign ministry said the French move was "illegitimate and in clear violation of general European principles". Speaking earlier on Sunday, Maurizio Furia, a spokesman for the Italian rail company, said that trains were not being allowed to pass into Menton, France, from the Italian border station of Ventimiglia. The BBC's Hugh Schofield says a demonstration in support of the Tunisian immigrants had been planned, in which some 300 protesters had planned to ride what they dubbed "the train of dignity". Because of the closure, the demonstration was unable to take place. France has said migrants have to prove they can support themselves financially and has set up patrols on the Italian border. But Italy says that France's actions are not in line with the EU's Schengen passport-free travel zone. "We have given the migrants travel documents, and we gave everything (else) that is needed, and the European Commission recognised that, it has said that Italy is following the Schengen rules," Italian Interior Minister Roberto Maroni said in an interview on Italy's Sky TG24 TV. Italy and other European countries have been increasingly concerned about migration from north Africa following the political turmoil in the region. Earlier this month, Italy and France agreed to launch sea and air patrols to try to prevent the influx of thousands of people from Tunisia, Egypt and Libya.
Yemeni security forces opened fire on anti-government protesters gathered in the capital, Sanaa, eyewitnesses say. Hundreds of thousands took part in the demonstrations to reiterate calls for President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down. Doctors said dozens were injured. Many women took part in the protests, angry at President Saleh's comments last week that their behaviour was against Islam. More than 100 people have died in two months of protests against Mr Saleh. The Yemeni leader, who has been in power for more than three decades, has said he is willing to hand over power, but only to "safe hands". An opposition delegation, led by former Foreign Minister Mohammed Basindwa, is meanwhile in Saudi Arabia for talks with Gulf Arab mediators. In Sanaa, authorities opened fire with live ammunition and tear gas, witnesses said. "We neared the Sanaa Trade Centre when police confronted us with tear gas, and suddenly opened heavy gunfire on us from all directions," Sabry Mohammed, a protester, told Reuters news agency. "A state of terror set in among the demonstrators, and some of them fled into side streets," he added. Mohammed al-Abahi, the head doctor at the protesters' field hospital, told the Associated Press that at least 30 people were wounded, including two hit by bullets. There were also reports of clashes between demonstrators and security forces in the southern city of Damar, in which several people were wounded. Protests were also reported in other cities, including Taiz, Aden and al-Hudaida.
A drug to treat an advanced form of kidney cancer will not be made available on the NHS in England and Wales. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) ruled that everolimus, which can prolong life in some cases, was too expensive. The charity Kidney Cancer UK, which appealed against earlier draft guidelines, said it was disappointed. Each year, 4,000 patients are diagnosed with advanced renal cell carcinoma. Two drugs, sunitinib and pazopanib, have been approved for use by the NHS. Everolimus, also known as Afinitor, has been shown to increase overall survival in cases where the other two have failed. It costs more than Â£200,000 per patient for a full course of treatment. Sir Andrew Dillon, NICE chief executive, said: "We regret not to be able to recommend this drug, but we have to ensure that the money available to the NHS, for treating cancer and other conditions is used to best effect, particularly when the NHS, like the rest of the public sector, is under considerable financial pressure." Dr Pat Hanlon, from Kidney Cancer UK, said his reaction was: "one of deep disappointment". He added: "We know the NHS cannot afford all drugs, but they are effectively robbing people of a few months of life." He recommended that doctors and patients apply for help from the government's cancer drug fund, which can be used for medication not approved by NICE.
Tourism officials believe that Northamptonshire can boast more than 20m tourism visits a year from visitors and locals coming to the county. Figures have revealed that since 2009, there has been a 4% rise of tourism in the county to 20m people. East Midlands Tourism released the results looking into the growth of the town. Mike Carr, from East Midlands Development Agency said: "It's encouraging to see the growth." One of Northamptonshire's biggest tourist attractions is the Althorp estate, home of the Spencer family. Edward Crookes, Althorp Estates Director, said he had seen a significant rise in the number of people coming to the estate. "The house has great history and great detail, we are really proud of what we have to offer," he said. He added: "We are constantly trying to evolve the house and offer something new each year. That way we stay fresh and people come wanting more." Rob Purdy from Northamptonshire Enterprise Limited said: "People who come here really enjoy the county and want to come back again. "It's those repeat visitors that help tourism. "Every place has something different to offer and it's good news that tourism is up in the county." East Midlands Tourism released the results which found that inward investment in the county had also helped boost growth.
Scientists are carrying out the first ever seabed survey of the East Yorkshire coast. The latest technology is being used to produce an accurate map of the area between Flamborough and Spurn Point. Coastal engineers will use the data to help them take more cost-effective, preventative action to combat coastal erosion. According to government figures the Holderness coastline is one of the fastest eroding areas in Europe. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) estimate that 2m (6ft) of shoreline is lost every year. The problem is particularly acute in the region as much of the coast is soft clay. Defra is funding the Â£400,000 survey, which uses shipboard sonar equipment to map the seabed up to 2kms (1.2 miles) from the land. The information will be combined with land and air surveys to give a fuller picture of the locations likely to be affected by coastal erosion. Mike Ball, principal engineer at East Riding of Yorkshire Council, said the information will lead to better decision making and more cost-effective sea defences. "We can see which areas need the defences building, which areas need their defences strengthening in light of the detail of the information we are getting from the survey. "The information will complete the picture. At the moment we don't know where the material that is on our beaches goes to exactly. "It comes offshore and it goes down but we don't know how that process occurs, how that mechanism happens," he said.
World War I spies engraved messages on toe-nails and used lemon juice to write invisible letters, classified documents released by the CIA reveal. The six documents, amongst the oldest secret papers to be held by the agency, disclose a number of spying techniques. The nearly century-old records include instructions "to suspect and examine every possible thing". Recent advancements in technology have made it possible to release the documents, the CIA said. One document suggests soaking a handkerchief, or any other starched substance, in nitrate, soda and starch, in order to make a portable invisible ink solution. Putting the treated handkerchief in water would release a solution that could then be used to write secret messages, the records say. A document written in 1914 in French, exposes a German formula for making secret ink, suggesting that French spies had managed to crack the enemy's code. One memorandum, compiled by a hand-writing expert in California, suggests painting invisible messages on the human body. "To make them appear, develop a suitable reagent sprayed with an atomizer" the record states. The document warns of "other methods used by spies and smugglers, according to the skill and education of the criminals", such as "engraving messages and credentials on toe-nails". The secrets have been made obsolete by advances in the chemistry of secret ink and the lighting methods used to detect it , the CIA said. The CIA declassified more than a million historical documents last year. They are available on the agency's website.
A scholarship for fresh talent entering the oil and gas industry, as a legacy of the Piper Alpha disaster, has been unveiled. The 1988 North Sea oil platform tragedy saw 167 men die, the world's worst such incident. The new programme has been launched by industry skills and safety body Opito. Survivor Ed Punchard said: "It is important for us to remember the events of that night in a way which is about the future rather than the past." He explained: "I believe that we need to empower a new generation of young people who will be involved in the oil and gas industry in the future, so that they will be fully aware of the dangers inherent in the industry and the need for safety to be a priority at every level." David Doig, group chief executive of Aberdeen-based Opito, said: "Piper Alpha was a significant turning point for the oil and gas industry, not just here in the North Sea but far beyond. "It is vital that the lessons learned are not forgotten but are passed on to the next generation of offshore workers and managers, many of whom weren't even born when the disaster happened." The first three recipients are Olusola Olusuyi, known as Sola, Pal Bipin, and Ada Bolu.
Up to 26,000 construction jobs have been lost in Northern Ireland since 2007, in an industry slump that has cost the local economy £2bn, government figures have revealed. After the figures were released on Thursday, the Construction Employers Federation (CEF) warned that investment in the industry was "essential". The CEF argued that it would promote growth in the wider economy. The group said construction alone has a "multiplier effect" on other industry. Speaking to the BBC, managing director of CEF John Armstrong described this "unique" feature of the construction sector. "Every £1 invested directly in the construction industry generates £2.84 in the broader economy," he said. Mr Armstrong explained that in the example of a house, money invested in its construction led directly to further spending on furnishings, architectural and landscape design and other household products. The CEF criticised the government's current budget for not investing significantly in infrastructure and construction. After the election, Mr Armstrong said he was asking the government to take "very urgent steps" to redress the situation. "Construction activity generally, general construction, civil engineering and housing, have a vital, dynamic effect on getting an economy going," he said. Government figures show that 2010 construction output in Northern Ireland was £865m less than in 2007. Coupled with the "multiplier effect", the CEF said this amounted to a loss of £2bn in the wider economy. Statistics also reveal that employment in the construction industry has fallen by 26,000 from a high of 84,000 in 2007. The CEF warn that 10,000 more jobs could be lost unless the new government takes preventative action.
A group of war veterans have returned to South Korea 60 years after fighting in the famous Battle of Imjin River. Two Gloucestershire Regiment veterans paid tribute to their fallen comrades during a low-key ceremony at the Gloster Valley Battle Monument. The ferocious battle, in which soldiers held off thousands of Chinese troops for three days, was fought on top of nearby Gloster Hill in April 1951. It remains the bloodiest battle fought by British Forces since World War II. Pte Sam Mercer read the roll of honour of every soldier of the Gloucestershire Regiment who died either in battle or later in the prisoner of war camps. "This was the most important moment of the visit to me," said Mr Mercer, who lost an eye and a leg in the fighting. "One of the things I look back on with regret is that we had to leave the bodies of our fallen comrades behind to the fate of the Chinese." Another 'Glorious Gloster', L/Cpl Harry Hawksworth said: "As young men we were just following orders, but as we get older it just gets really emotional." The official remembrance ceremony takes place at the Gloster Valley Memorial at Solma-ri on Saturday and will involve scores of veterans from countries such as the UK, Canada, New Zealand and Australia.
A court in Egypt has ruled that the names of ousted President Hosni Mubarak and his wife Suzanne be removed from all public places. Hundreds of public squares, streets, libraries and schools across Egypt are named after the couple. Mr Mubarak's 29 years in power ended with his resignation in February after weeks of mass anti-government protests. The 82-year-old is currently under arrest at a hospital in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. He is due to be questioned about allegations of corruption and alleged violence against protesters during the popular uprising. Egypt's state news agency Mena reported on Thursday that his health is "unstable". Portraits of the former president have already been taken down at public institutions across the country. Ordering the same to be done for the Mubarak name, Judge Mohammed Hassan Omar said: "It has become clear that the size of the corruption that's being uncovered every day exceeds by far anyone's imagination." After the ruling, the transport minister said the Mubarak name would be removed from all ministry facilities, including a major underground station in central Cairo. There are suggestions for streets to be renamed after the people who were killed in the recent anti-government protests, the BBC's Yolande Knell in Cairo reports. An Egyptian government fact-finding panel reported recently that at least 846 people were killed and 6,400 were injured during the 18 days of protests earlier this year. The mission - consisting of a panel of judges - said security forces fired live ammunition, placed snipers on rooftops and used vehicles to run over protesters. Mr Mubarak's two sons are among a growing number of ministers and officials from his ruling circle who are also facing investigation.
A toddler who fell from the top floor of a four-storey Florida hotel has escaped injury after being caught by a British woman on holiday. Jah-Nea Myles, 16 months, apparently slipped through the balcony railing and fell into the arms of Helen Beard. Ms Beard, of Worksop, was at the pool at Orlando's Econo Lodge hotel when she saw the baby hanging from the railing and ran underneath, she said. She held the child until emergency medical workers arrived. The baby was taken to hospital, where medical staff said they saw no bruises or scratches and deemed her in good health. An investigator with the Orange County sheriff's office described her as "playful" and said she was not crying. Helena Myles, Jah-Nea's 20-year-old mother, told police her friend Dominique Holt had been watching the baby in the adjacent hotel room. Ms Holt, 21, said she went to the bathroom about 2100 local time (0100 GMT), then heard screaming and saw the balcony door ajar. She ran out onto the balcony and saw the baby in the arms of Ms Beard, from Nottinghamshire. Ms Myles told Reuters: "She's perfectly fine. Not a scratch on her body. "I'm thanking the Lord above right now for saving my child's life. I'm also thanking that lady because she was an angel sent from heaven." Police said no criminal charges were pending. Orlando is a popular destination for holidaymakers, with Walt Disney World and other tourist attractions.
US congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot in the head in January, has been declared fit enough to attend her husband's space shuttle launch. Nasa astronaut Mark Kelly said his wife's reaction to the doctors' decision had been to pump her fist and say: "Awesome!" Ms Giffords narrowly survived the shooting spree by a gunman in Tucson, Arizona, that killed six people. Mr Kelly is commander of the Endeavour, due to lift off on Friday. It will be one of the last space shuttle missions and the launch will be attended by President Barack Obama and other VIPs. "I have met with her neurosurgeon and her doctors, and... they have given us permission to take her down to the launch," Mr Kelly told CBS News.   "I'm excited about that," he added. Ms Giffords suffered a bullet wound to her brain's left hemisphere, which controls speech and movement for the right side of the body. "Her personality's 100% there," said Mr Kelly. "You know, it's difficult for her to walk. The communication skills are difficult, at this point." Dong Kim, Ms Giffords's neurosurgeon, told The Arizona Republic newspaper on Sunday that that doctors were "comfortable with her travelling". He said Ms Giffords was "maybe in the top 1% of patients in terms of how far she's come, and how quickly she's gotten there". "I think the question then becomes, how far is she going to go?" he said. The Democratic congresswoman is due to undergo more surgery in May to repair a section of her skull with a cranial implant. CBS will broadcast its full interview with Mr Kelly on Monday. Jared Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to charges relating to the attack at Ms Giffords's constituency event in Tucson on 8 January. Thirteen other people were wounded.
A Borders textile firm has announced a 20% increase in its turnover, to Â£8m a year, in its annual accounts. Hawick Knitwear, which employs more than 230 staff, has also increased its production of sweaters to meet demand. Production has been boosted by better than expected sales of the Hawick Knitwear-branded range which launched in January. The company, which dates back to 1874, was bought by managing director Benny Hartop in November last year. As well as the new range, the firm has seen growth of its longer-established business of supplying customers who sell the garments under their private labels. In Europe, Hawick Knitwear sells into Sweden, Finland, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Italy and Spain. Markets outside Europe include the USA, Canada, Mexico, and Japan. The knitwear firm has increased its production to 9,500 sweaters each week, from about 7,500 last year, to keep up with demand. Mr Hartop said: "The increase in production is in direct response to a surge in orders from both home and abroad for our private label clients and now for our own brand too. "There will always be challenges but thankfully our future is looking very good and this is a testament to the dedicated staff working at all levels of the business. "I have no doubt this success will continue for us into the future."
Ford has unveiled its strongest first quarter profits for 13 years, helped by increasing demand for more fuel-efficient cars. Profits rose to $2.55bn (Â£1.54bn; 1.75bn euros) in the first three months of 2011, compared with $2.09bn at the same period the year before. "Our team delivered a great quarter, with solid growth in all regions," said Ford president Alan Mulally. Ford said the 2011 outlook was good, despite higher commodity costs. Revenue for the first quarter was $33.1bn, up from $28.1bn a year earlier, a much bigger jump than analysts had expected. The firm said it had seen a strong performance in its home North American market, as well as "solid improvement" in Europe, where revenue had risen by $1bn to $8.7bn. US sales had climbed 16%, while market share in the Asia Pacific and Africa regions had also increased, the carmaker said. It added that it had made "significant progress" in strengthening its balance sheet by reducing debt levels. Ford said it was confident sales would keep rising "despite uncertain economic conditions". "We expect our annual volumes to continue to grow substantially," said Mr Mulally. Ford also said that it had seen "minimal" impact on its business following last month's earthquake in Japan, which has affected many Japanese car manufacturers. Some analysts said the carmaker could actually take business away from Japanese rivals. "I think Ford and a lot of the other American automakers will take market share from the Japanese," said Channing Smith at Capital Advisors. Ford has recovered strongly since it was forced to cut tens of thousands of jobs and close factories during the height of the global financial crisis. Unlike its great Detroit rivals General Motors and Chrysler, it has done so without any direct government funding.
Babies born in spring are slightly more likely to develop anorexia nervosa, while those born in the autumn have a lower risk, say researchers. A report published in the British Journal of Psychiatry suggests temperature, sunlight, infection or the mother's diet could be responsible. Other academics said the effect was small and the disorder had many causes. The researchers analysed data from four previous studies including 1,293 people with anorexia. The researchers found an "excess of anorexia nervosa births" between March and June - for every seven anorexia cases expected, there were in fact eight. There were also fewer than expected cases in September and October. Dr Lahiru Handunnetthi, one of the report's authors, at the Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, said: "A number of previous studies have found that mental illnesses such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression are more common among those born in the spring - so this finding in anorexia is perhaps not surprising. "However, our study only provides evidence of an association. Now we need more research to identify which factors are putting people at particular risk." The report suggests seasonal changes in temperature, sunlight exposure and vitamin D levels, maternal nutrition and infections as "strong candidate factors". Dr Terence Dovey, from the Centre for Research into Eating Disorders, at Loughborough University, said: "Anorexia is a very complex multifaceted disorder," adding that the study looked at just one aspect. "Should we concentrate screening methods to those born in the winter months? No, we should not. It leaves too much error of margin and the potential significant difference is only small."
Residents of the Irish village where Lord Louis Mountbatten was killed by an IRA bomb in 1979 are forging links with the Hampshire town where he lived. An exhibition about Mullaghmore, Co Sligo is being held in Romsey, near the Mountbattens' Broadlands Estate. May Burns from Mullaghmore said: "The majority of people were very ashamed. It's a good time to heal old wounds." The towns' connection dates back to the 19th Century when Mullaghmore was part of the Broadlands Estate. Lord Mountbatten, who was 79 when he was assassinated by the IRA, was a regular holiday visitor to the Co Sligo fishing village. He was the Queen's cousin and his grandson, Lord Brabourne, is one of Prince William's godfathers. An earlier Broadlands owner, Prime Minister Lord Palmerston, built Mullaghmore's harbour in 1820. Residents of the town, many of whom clearly remember the events of 1979, have visited Romsey to stage an exhibition about their village's history. John McKeon said: "We need to forge relationships and there are a lot of things shared by both communities." They will also carry out more research into the history of the harbour at the University of Southampton's Broadlands Archive. Romsey historian Phoebe Merrick, who has visited Mullaghmore, said: "I was very struck by how much they minded their harbour being used for that dreadful assassination - it still sears their souls."
Two men have been charged over a sex scandal at an Australian defence academy, in a row which led to a review of the military's treatment of women. The cadets from the Australian Defence Force Academy are accused of secretly filming a female cadet having sex and broadcasting it on the internet. They have been charged with misusing an electronic communications service. One has been charged with an indecent act. The government has set up a number of inquiries in response to the scandal. The 18-year old female cadet said that she had consensual sex with a fellow first-year cadet, which was then transmitted via webcam to six other cadets watching on a computer in another room. Photographs of the encounter were also said to have been circulated around the academy. The two men, aged 18 and 19, face possible jail terms if convicted. The commander of the academy was ordered to take leave in the wake of the incident and at least two inquiries were initiated. Sex Discrimination Commissioner Elizabeth Broderick was asked to conduct a review into the treatment of women both at the academy and in the wider military. Reviews were also ordered into the use of alcohol and social media in the military. The scandal followed another relating to the navy. In February, the defence department released a report chronicling what it called a culture of predatory sexual behaviour on board the naval supply ship, HMAS Success. It revealed a fiercely tribal culture in which women sailors were treated with disdain, alcohol was badly misused and discipline had broken down.
German government ministers have tried to reassure workers that their pay won't be undercut by workers from central and eastern Europe. It comes as the German labour market is fully opened to workers from Poland and seven other countries which joined the EU in 2004. Germany held out until the last moment against opening its economy to workers from the former communist countries. Ministers have promised to protect German workers from cheaper labour. Estimating that 100,000 people would migrate each year, Labour Minister Ursula von der Leyen told the popular Bild newspaper that there would be more checks on industries like construction and catering where German unions were particularly fearful of pay being undercut by immigrants. She said inspectors would ensure that agreed minimum wages were paid and that incomers were registered. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said his ministry would have an additional 150 officials monitoring industries to detect illegal workers. As well as Poland, workers from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia will be eligible to join the German labour market. Ministers chose popular newspapers to make their promises, perhaps indicating the political unease among ordinary Germans, even as employers say the economy needs outsiders to do skilled work. What employers don't say, but unions fear, is that firms also want unskilled workers at lower rates of pay.
A project to publish every letter ever written or received by Charles Darwin is expected to be completed after a £5m funding boost. The Darwin Correspondence Project is jointly run by Cambridge University Library and Harvard University. The newly-established Evolution Education Trust is one of a group of donors and has given £2.5m. Project director Dr Jim Secord said: "We are deeply grateful for this visionary support." The other donors are The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the Isaac Newton Trust. "The greatest threat to long running projects in the arts and humanities is that it's almost impossible to secure long-term funds," said Dr Secord. "And so much project time is taken up in applying for, and managing, short-term grants. "Now we can concentrate on finishing the job." More than 15,000 letters have been identified since the project was founded in 1974 by the American scholar Frederick Burkhardt. The letters are scattered across at least 200 institutions and private collections. They take in every part of Charles Darwin's life from his school days onwards, and provide an intimate insight into his scientific development as well as his personal life. "Darwin's conclusions about how all living things have evolved and are interconnected are among the most important ever made," said Dr Secord. "Unlike his published works, Darwin's letters are vitally important in showing how science is done, with the constant gathering of new data, and the testing and questioning of theories and ideas." So far 8,000 letters have been published, taking Darwin's correspondence up until 1870. More than 6,000 of them can be searched online for free at the Darwin Correspondence Project. By the time the project is finished in 2022, 30 volumes of the letters will have been published.
Russia's largest search engine, Yandex, has confirmed that it passed confidential data to the country's state security service, FSB. Yandex's online payment service gave the FSB personal information about users who donated money to an anti-corruption website launched by the Russian blogger Alexey Navalny. The disclosure follows a warning by Yandex about the legal and political risks associated with investing in Russia, ahead of its planned listing in New York. Yandex plans to raise up to $1bn (Â£600m) through a listing on Nasdaq. In its prospectus, issued to the US Securities and Exchange Commission last week, the company warned that businesses in Russia "may be subject to aggressive application of contradictory or ambiguous laws or regulations, or to politically-motivated actions". The Russian legal system is characterised in the document by: The company also warned that the degree of uncertainty will grow as the 2012 presidential elections approach. Russia is one of the few countries where Google is not the dominant search engine. Yandex holds 65% of the Russian internet search market while Google has 21.8%. "Yandex has a very good position in Russia and some of the former Soviet countries, being the most popular search engine", says analyst Lilit Gevorgyan from IHS Global Insight. "However, when you hear news that the FSB forced Yandex to reveal the payments through Yandex.Money, it hits the most painful spot: transparency and state intervention." Some experts say this episode will not affect the company's IPO plans. "All big funds who plan to invest a lot of money in Russia are already aware of these risks," says Georgy Voronkov, analyst from Investcafe research company. Yandex plans to follow in the footsteps of another Russian Internet group, Mail.ru, which at the end of last year raised $912m in London.
Ugandan gay activist Kasha Jacqueline Nabagesera has been given the prestigious Martin Ennals rights award. The 10 organisations which make up the award jury said she was courageous and faced harassment because of her work. Homosexual acts are illegal in Uganda, and can be punished by long jail terms. In January, her colleague David Kato was murdered not long after suing a paper that outed them both as gay. Police denied the killing was because of his sexuality. Three months before the murder, Uganda's Rolling Stone newspaper published the photographs of several people it said were gay, including activist Mr Kato, with the headline "Hang them." The name of Ms Nabagesera, the founder of gay rights organisation Freedom and Roam Uganda, also appeared on the list. The Geneva-based award jury said Ms Nabagesera had appeared on national television and issued press statements on behalf of Uganda's gay community. However, because of threats and harassment she now shifted "from house to house, afraid to stay long in the same place", their statement said. "[She is] an exceptional woman of a rare courage, fighting under death threat for human dignity and the rights of homosexuals and marginalised people in Africa," jury chairman Hans Thoolen said. In October 2009, an MP introduced a bill that proposed increasing the penalties in Uganda for homosexual acts from 14 years in prison to life. It also proposed the death penalty for a new offence of "aggravated homosexuality" - defined as when one of the participants is a minor, HIV-positive, disabled or a "serial offender". The Anti-Homosexuality Bill is yet to be formally debated by the Ugandan parliament. The Martin Ennals Award for Human Rights Defenders is named after the late British lawyer who became the first head of the human rights organisation Amnesty International.
Conservatives in Somerset are celebrating winning an extra 15 seats across Somerset in local council elections. The party won control of West Somerset and Mendip councils and held on to power at Sedgemoor. Liberal Democrats lost 12 seats at councils across the county, but kept control of South Somerset. Labour, which has traditionally struggled in the county, gained six more seats. Taunton Deane Borough Council remains with no one party in overall control - the Conservatives have 28 seats but not a majority. No party has overall control in Bath and North East Somerset - the Lib Dems and Tories have 29 seats each. The Tories retained control of North Somerset Council. The party also held Shepton Mallet in the Somerset County Council by-election, which was held after one Conservative councillor moved away from the area. John Parham, a Mendip district councillor, was elected as the county councillor for the area. The new West Somerset Council consists of 19 Conservatives, two Labour and seven independents. It was previously run by Conservative leader Tim Taylor in coalition with independents. Mr Taylor said the lack of a controlling group had weakened the council in recent years but that he felt the authority would now be in a better situation to deal with financial challenges. He said: "I believe that we'll have good leadership, good team work and this will give us strength to negotiate with government to try and get our very challenging finances put right."
China has set up a new government body to control information on the internet. The State Internet Information Office will take over responsibility from a number of lower-ranking directorates. The new set-up will enable the government to keep a tighter grip on the content available to Chinese internet-users inside the country. Beijing operates vast internet censorship, dubbed the "great firewall of China". Websites deemed sensitive by the government are routinely blocked. The Chinese government has put a lot of resources into controlling and censoring the internet content available to its citizens. Until now, the responsibility fell to the country's Information Office and quite a few other agencies across various government ministries. There was often in-fighting as each tried to wield power over what was allowed on the internet, from online games to politically sensitive content. The newly-created State Internet Information Office brings technical and political control over the internet under one body, with Information Minister Wang Chen in charge. This in effect gives his ministry more power than the other agencies involved. This indicates that online news and information, new media business and internet access will most likely come under tighter control, as the government clamps down on dissent following the Jasmine Revolution in the Middle East and north Africa. At the same time, the government hopes to use the internet to promote itself both at home and abroad.
Kate Bush has admitted that the length of time it takes her to release an album can be "extremely stressful". Speaking to the BBC, the singer - whose last album, Aerial, came out in 2005 - said she had written new songs but did not know when they would be released. "It's very frustrating the albums take as long as they do," the 52-year-old told Radio 4's Front Row. "I wish there weren't such big gaps between them." An album of reworked songs, Director's Cut, is released later this month. The collection features material from her Sensual World and Red Shoes albums, released in 1989 and 1993 respectively. A new version of Deeper Understanding was released as a single in April, with a video starring Robbie Coltrane, Noel Fielding and Frances Barber. Speaking to Radio Four's Front Row arts programme, the singer denied she was a perfectionist in the recording studio. "I don't think I am," she said. "People have said this, but I don't think I really want anything to be perfect. "I think it's important that things are flawed," she continued. "That's what makes a piece of art interesting sometimes - the bit that's wrong or the mistake you've made that's led onto an idea you wouldn't have had otherwise." Bush described her new material as "work in progress", but was unwilling to say when it might see the light of day. "Even if I was able to talk about it now, it might completely change in a few weeks and so would no longer be relevant." The star, whose hits include Wuthering Heights and Running Up That Hill, has been famously reclusive in recent years. The full Kate Bush interview can be heard on Front Row on Radio 4 at 1915 BST on Wednesday.
The Congolese media operate against a backdrop of political power struggles and violent unrest. Attacks on media outlets and their staff are common, and the authorities frequently silence critical voices. In the volatile east, the authorities have disrupted media operations, citing security threats, and rebel groups have been known to seize control of outlets. In its World Press Freedom Index for 2015, Reporters Without Borders ranks the DR Congo at position 150 out of 180 countries. Nonetheless, the press is able to criticise government bodies, and some publications are mouthpieces for opposition parties. The DR Congo has nearly 300 radio stations and scores of TV stations. The private sector dominates the broadcast media and top outlets are owned by businessmen with strong political links. Radio is the top medium; a handful of stations, including state-run RTNC, broadcast nationwide. Terrestrial TV tends to be confined to the main towns. The UN Mission in DR Congo (Monuc) and a Swiss-based organisation, Fondation Hirondelle, operate Radio Okapi. The influential network employs mostly-Congolese staff. The BBC broadcasts on FM in Kinshasa (92.7), Lubumbashi (92.0), Kisangani (92.0), Goma (93.3) and Bukavu (102.2). . Radio France Internationale (RFI) is widely available on FM too. On occasion, the authorities have suspended its relays because of its coverage. A handful of daily newspapers have low print-runs and rarely circulate outside the capital. Internet penetration had reached 3.9 per cent (3.1 million users) by April 2016 (InternetLiveStats). Social media use is rising, especially among young people and the political class. Facebook is the main platform. The government occasionally curbs internet access and SMS during times of heightened tension.
A wife of Osama Bin Laden has said he had been living in the compound in Abbottabad for five years, a Pakistani military official has told the BBC. The wife, one of three of Bin Laden's wives held after Monday's raid, said she had not ventured outside one room over that time, the official added. The official said 13 children had also been recovered from the compound. Bin Laden was killed in a US special forces raid on the compound late on Sunday. He was believed to have been the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks in 2001 and many others. The senior Pakistani military official, who asked not to be named, said they had detained Bin Laden's three wives, one of who was Yemeni, after the operation by US special forces in Abbottabad. "She [the Yemeni-born wife] told us that she came out of that room after five years and that her husband was with her during that duration," the senior official said. He did not clarify whether the wife had said that Bin Laden had stayed in the compound continuously like her, or ventured out. She told officials she was shot during the raid and fell unconscious, and that at that point, Bin Laden had been alive. She said that later on, her daughter had told her she had witnessed her father being shot. The Pakistani army also recovered 13 children from the compound - two girls and 11 boys - although they have not yet been able to establish how many are Bin Laden's children. They are all being held in secret locations, the official said.
Brazil's Supreme Court has voted overwhelmingly in favour of allowing same-sex couples the same legal rights as married heterosexuals. The decision was approved by 10-0 with one abstention. The ruling will give gay couples in "stable" partnerships the same financial and social rights enjoyed by those in heterosexual relationships. Brazil is the world's most populous Roman Catholic nation and has an estimated 60,000 gay couples. The ruling makes Brazil one of very few South American nations, after Argentina and Uruguay, to allow gay unions with benefits similar to those afforded a heterosexual married couple. "The freedom to pursue one's own sexuality is part of an individual's freedom of expression," said Justice Carlos Ayres Britto, the author of the ruling. Gay activists welcomed the decision, saying it marked an "historic day" for the country. "The degree of civilisation of a country can be measured by the way people in a nation treat their homosexual community," Claudio Nascimento, head of Rio de Janeiro state's Gay, Lesbian and Transsexuals Committee said, according to O Globo. From now on same sex couples will be able to register their civil partnerships with solicitors and public bodies, giving them proper inheritance and pension rights. However, the landmark ruling stops short of recognising gay marriage, which could involve public or religious ceremonies. Brazil's Roman Catholic Church had argued against the decision to allow civil unions, saying the only union referred to within Brazil's constitution was that between a man and a woman. But the country's recently elected President Dilma Rousseff has made the issue one of her big social policy reforms.
The British National Party has lost many of the seats it held on local councils in England. After 270 council election results, the anti-immigration party won two seats but with a net loss of 11 councillors. The BNP lost all five of its seats in Stoke-on-Trent, where it launched its election campaign in England, and one of its two councillors in Burnley. BNP candidates finished ahead of Liberal Democrats in four seats in the Welsh Assembly, but failed to win any. Before the vote, party leader Nick Griffin said he was confident a candidate would reach the 7% needed to gain a seat, but none reached the threshold. In Stoke-on-Trent the wards previously held by the BNP were all subject to boundary changes, and due to those changes there were 16 fewer seats available. The party, which had two MEPs elected in 2009, lost almost half its council seats in last year's local elections, losing all 12 of its seats on east London's Barking and Dagenham Council. As well as elections in England, the BNP also fielded 32 candidates for the Scottish parliament and candidates for the assemblies in Wales and Northern Ireland. However, the party had to rein back on its campaign spending with debts of more than Â£500,000, which it has said it expects to pay off by the end of the year. The BNP has been hit by internal divisions and was facing doubts over its future after costly court cases brought against it including one by the Equality and Human Rights Commission. The party has said it will not be incurring any more debts as a result of Thursday's elections. The BNP contested 338 seats in the 2010 general election and lost its deposit in 266 of them.
President: Abdel Fattah al-Sisi Retired Field Marshal Abdel Fattah al-Sisi was elected president in May 2014, almost a year after he removed his predecessor, President Mohammed Morsi, from office. He had served as armed forced chief under Mr Morsi, and was a key figure in the interim government which took over after the ouster. Some Egyptians celebrated the possibility that Mr Sisi would bring stability to a country in upheaval since the removal of long-term leader Hosni Mubarak during the ''Arab Spring'' in 2011. To some Mr Sisi is a hero for ending the rule of Mr Morsi, who was voted into office in 2012 and who alienated many Egyptians who took to the streets demanding his resignation. Others worry that he represents a return to the authoritarian security state that prevailed under Mr Mubarak. Supporters of Mr Morsi resent what they see as his removal in a coup and have been vocal in calling for his return. Hundreds of supporters have been killed in street clashes with police and in a crackdown on Islamists. The Muslim Brotherhood that underpinned Mr Morsi's presidency has been banned and declared a "terrorist group". In his long military career Mr Sisi has had little actual combat experience, latterly specialising mainly in military intelligence. On his appointment as army chief under Mr Morsi he was the youngest member of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. He is the latest in a line of Egyptian rulers drawn from the military that was only briefly broken during Mr Morsi's year in office. He was born in Cairo in 1954.
Egypt is a major regional media player. Its press is one of the most influential and widely-read in the region, and its TV and film industry supplies much of the Arab-speaking world with shows from its Media Production City. The state is a major force in the media and runs many TV and radio stations, websites, newspapers and magazines. State media are almost always loyal to President al-Sisi. Most pro-Islamist media have been closed, or now broadcast from abroad. Since the 2011 revolution, "successive governments have tried to control the media and have not hesitated to impose measures restricting journalists' freedom," Reporters Without Borders said in 2016. The authorities are "orchestrating a 'Sisification' of the media and a witch hunt against the now-banned Muslim Brotherhood", the group said. Television is the most popular medium. There are two state-run national TVs and six regional channels. Many private networks emerged in the post-Mubarak era. Egypt is a big force in satellite TV. Most leading Arab pay TV networks have a presence at Media Production City in Cairo. Egypt was the first Arab nation to have its own satellite, Nilesat. There are more than 20 daily newspapers - state-run or privately-published. Some 30.1 million Egyptians were online by 2016 (InternetLiveStats.com). Mobile platforms account for the largest share of users. Media figures, celebrities and politicians are among the main social media attractions.
Blackpool Pleasure Beach has banned picnics from being consumed inside the 42-acre attraction. Visitors who want to eat their own food have been told to eat it at a picnic site outside before entering the theme park. Admission staff have begun checking visitors' bags for sandwiches and recommending restaurants on site. More than six million people a year visit the attraction, which charges Â£86 for an all-day family ticket. A section of the park's website said: "We do not allow people to picnic within the park. "Pleasure Beach is experiencing a growing problem with visitors using our restaurants' tables to eat food they have brought in themselves. "In order to alleviate this, it is our aim to stop people with excessive food from setting up a full meal." Blackpool Pleasure Beach said that allowances are made for guests with special dietary requirements and dedicated picnic areas are also provided for school parties which book in advance. Councillor Fred Jackson, deputy Labour leader on Blackpool Council said: "I think it's very sad. "It's not a family-friendly policy, which is a shame because we all want Blackpool to be family-oriented. "When our children were younger we couldn't afford to eat in cafes and always had picnics - and there are plenty of people in that position today. "I would like the Pleasure Beach to reverse that decision." Blackpool Zoo and Camelot at nearby Chorley both allow picnics to be brought in, in common with other attractions including Alton Towers and Thorpe Park.
A memorial to Dorset soldiers who died in World War I has been unveiled on the Somme battlefield in France. Volunteers raised Â£23,000 for the 8ft (2.4m) Portland stone obelisk, the first memorial dedicated specifically to members of the Dorsetshire Regiment. Former soldiers and descendants of World War I servicemen attended the ceremony near the village of Authuille. Martin Willoughby of the Western Front Association said: "At last we have a fitting memorial to the men of Dorset." Three hundred and fifty soldiers from the Dorsetshire Regiment, known as "the Dorsets", died on the first day the Battle of the Somme on 1 July 1916. In all, more than 4,500 Dorset servicemen were killed in World War I campaigns in France, the Middle East and Mesopotamia. Another 16,000 survived, many with terrible injuries. Mr Willoughby said: "There is a realisation that we are coming up to a whole series of World War I centenaries, and the Dorsetshire regiment was not recognised in one of the major theatre of operations." The memorial was carved by sculptors Zoe Cull and Alex Evans at their workshop at Bockhampton, near Dorchester. It bears the regimental and county crests as well as a quotation from Thomas Hardy: "Victory crowns the just."
The length of a person's fingers could reveal their risk of motor neurone disease, according to a study. UK researchers measured the finger length of 110 people, including 47 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the most common form of the disease. The study, in the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry, suggests a link between a longer fourth finger relative to the index finger and ALS. Experts say finger length cannot help screen for ALS and more work is needed. The ratio between the fingers has already been linked to many traits, including sporting prowess and aggression, and is believed to be set in the womb. Experts believe a longer fourth finger relative to the index finger could be partly determined by how much exposure a baby has to the male hormone testosterone before birth. Indeed, men often do have slightly longer ring fingers than index fingers, while women often do not. And experts know that motor neurons need testosterone for survival and repair, and men who are born without the ability to use testosterone in the normal way develop a form of motor neuron degeneration. Dr Brian Dickie of the Motor Neurone Disease Association, said: "This simple, but carefully conducted study raises some interesting questions about how events occurring before birth may increase the risk of developing motor neuron disease later in life. "But it's important to remember that exposure to higher testosterone in the womb does not directly cause motor neuron disease. "Many people with long ring fingers will never develop motor neuron disease as we believe there are numerous genetic and environmental factors that need to coincide in order to trigger the disease."
A therapeutic care farm has been officially opened in Suffolk for people with mental health issues. Potsford Farm at Letheringham has been set up to provide a service which allows patients or clients to work with animals and crops. Nathan Nobbs, psychiatric nurse at the farm, said: "It leads to improved self-esteem, self-worth and confidence." Suffolk County Council is aiming to oversee the establishment of 10 care farms by 2012. Suffolk social services or the NHS refers patients to the farm and pays for their therapy. Those who attend work with staff and volunteers for up to three days a week at the 200 acre (81 hectares) site near the River Deben. Mr Nobbs, a former ward manager at St Clements Hospital in Ipswich, said: "Just being outside and surrounded by animals and this environment, people won't believe the impact that can have on people with mental health and learning difficulties," he said. "The relationship these people can have with the animals is completely non-judgemental, it's peaceful and just so therapeutic." The farm has Red Poll cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, chickens, horses and a livery yard. The owners, Stephen and Marion Fletcher, bought the farm in the 1990s and ran it as a business. Mr Fletcher said: "It was falling into disrepair, needed an injection of capital and hopefully it's set up for the next decade or so. "The concept is that we will grow these things and package and sell them as a product from the farm."
London Irish have signed Ospreys centre Jonathan Spratt and Edinburgh Rugby scrum-half Ross Samson. Spratt, 25, joins on a one-year deal, and Samson, 23, on a two-year-deal. Wales international Spratt said: "I'm excited to be joining London Irish. They play an exciting brand of rugby that appeals to me." Samson, who has played for Scotland at U20 level, said: "I've enjoyed my time at Edinburgh but a chance to play in the Premiership was not to be missed." The duo will join the Exiles squad this summer for pre-season training. Jonathan is a strong, powerful runner, with great feet and good distribution skills. Spratt made his Wales debut in 2009 in a Test against Canada. The centre also played for Taranaki in New Zealand's domestic rugby tournament, the Air New Zealand Cup in 2008. He has not played for Ospreys this season, having damaged his anterior cruciate ligament in pre-season, on his return from an earlier injury. Samson is a product of Newcastle Falcons' academy and has represented Scotland at all age-group levels. The Edinburgh-born scrum-half featured in the IRB Junior World Championship in 2008 and this season's IRB sevens circuit tournament. Ross has a strong pass on him, an eye for the gap and he reads the game well. London Irish head coach Toby Booth said: "Jonathan is a highly talented young player and another very useful addition to our squad. "He is a strong, powerful runner, with great feet and good distribution skills. "Ross is an exciting young talent in Scottish rugby. He has a strong pass on him, an eye for the gap and he reads the game well."
Cuba says it is studying plans that would allow its citizens to travel abroad as tourists for the first time in more than 50 years. The proposed move is one of 313 reforms backed by the Communist Party Congress behind closed doors in April and published in new economic guidelines. Other reforms include legalising the private sale of property and cars and expanding private co-operatives. The moves are part of a major shake-up of Cuba's struggling economic model. Details of the proposed reforms are sketchy. The guideline referring to foreign travel simply states: "Study a policy that allows Cubans living in the country to travel abroad as tourists." At the moment, Cubans wishing to travel abroad must file an exit request that may be turned down. The paperwork involved can cost hundreds of dollars at a time. Another guideline says the state should "establish the buying and selling of homes" for citizens. However, there is no detailed information on how the system would work. Previously, details of reforms have only been released once they become law and are published in the government's official newsletter. Earlier this year, the government began issuing licences allowing citizens to become self-employed. Cuban President Raul Castro has championed limited free-market reforms since taking the reins of power from his brother Fidel in 2008. At the recent party congress in Havana, the two brothers appeared side-by-side for the first time, demonstrating that Fidel, now 84, endorsed his younger brother's policies.
A public arts charity aims to raise £10m over the next two years to help save a building considered one of Scotland's great modernist structures. NVA has concluded missives with the Catholic Church for St Peter's Seminary in Cardross, Argyll and Bute. The A-listed building was designed and built in the 1960s as a training college for priests but it has not been used since the 1980s and is now a ruin. NVA aims to restore part of the seminary and use it as an art space. Its plan would stabilise the structure and gradually restore some interior spaces for cultural and educational use. The charity has already received £100,000 from Creative Scotland's National Lottery Fund towards the project. It still needs to raise £2m by 2013 to take its proposals forward. St Peter's Seminary was designed by Glasgow architects Gillespie, Kidd and Coia. The Roman Catholic seminary, which belonged to the Archdiocese of Glasgow, was completed and consecrated in 1966. The distinctive zig-zag design and concrete appearance soon brought architectural recognition to the site. However, as numbers entering the religious life fell and with high maintenance costs, the decision was taken to close the college. In 1980 the seminary was deconsecrated and fell into a state of disrepair. The building was Category A listed by Historic Scotland in 1992. The World Monuments Fund, which works to preserve endangered cultural landmarks, added St Peter's College to its register in June 2007.
A "handyman" service for ex-forces personnel is being expanded to include north Wales. The Poppy Calls service, run by the Royal British Legion, aims to help people stay independent in their own home. Last year, more than 13,000 people across south and mid Wales had a free-of-charge visit by the charity's handyman, based in Aberystwyth. The charity is also advertising for a second fitter, in Swansea. The launch of the north Wales service was held in Wrexham on Tuesday. It is open to anyone who has served or is currently serving in the armed forces as well as widows, widowers, co-habiting partners and civil partners. Typical jobs carried out range from changing light bulbs and tap washers; putting up shelves, curtain rails and grab rails;  fitting smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors; and fitting and changing door locks and other security features. Poppy Calls staff can also build access ramps and sheds, and install care phones. Mike Greenwood, the legion's county manager for north Wales, said 4.4m elderly people in the UK were eligible for the legion's support. He said: "Many of these people find it difficult to maintain the lifestyle they once had in their own homes and Poppy Calls enables those people to feel safe and secure. "A service like Poppy Calls is great value to our beneficiaries, especially during economically testing times. It will go from strength to strength as it continues to be rolled out in Wales."
India's Supreme Court says people convicted of so-called honour killings should face the death penalty. "It is time to stamp out these barbaric, feudal practices which are a slur on our nation," the court said. According to one recent study, hundreds of people are killed each year in India for falling in love or marrying against their families' wishes. Convictions for "honour" killings usually carry life sentences. The death penalty is awarded only very rarely. When executions are authorised they can be delayed for years on appeal. Two Supreme Court judges issued Tuesday's ruling. They were dismissing an appeal against a life sentence by a man who had been convicted of strangling his daughter. "All persons who are planning to perpetrate 'honour' killings should know that the gallows await them," said Justices Markandeya Katju and Gyan Sudha Mishra. "He cannot take the law into his own hands by committing violence or giving threats of violence. "In our opinion honour killings, for whatever reason, come within the category of rarest of rare cases deserving the death punishment." Last month the Supreme Court warned states that they should "ruthlessly stamp out" so-called honour killings. It said senior officials who failed to act against offenders would be prosecuted. Age-old notions of tradition and family honour are still deeply entrenched in many parts of Indian society. Correspondents say there have been many recent cases in which people have been ostracised or killed for defying such notions. Many victims anger their families by marrying outside their caste. Often "honour" crimes against them are endorsed, or even encouraged, by village-based caste councils.
A court in Greece has sentenced two Greek sprinters to suspended jail sentences for staging a motorcycle crash to avoid a doping test. Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou were found guilty of perjury and sentenced to 31 months each. Their coach, Christos Tzekos, was sentenced to 33 months. All were expected to appeal. The sprinters had said an accident caused them to miss a drugs test on the eve of the 2004 Olympics in Athens. Judge Dimitris Lefkos said the crash had never occurred. Two witnesses to the supposed crash and several doctors who treated the athletes in hospital were given shorter sentences. During the trial the former sprinters had denied wrongdoing, as had Tzekos, who was accused of supplying banned substances. After they were found guilty of perjury, Kenteris's lawyer Michalis Dimitrakopoulos denounced the verdict. He was quoted as saying by the Associated Press news agency: "It is simply unbelievable to refuse any mitigating circumstances to Olympic champions. That is granted to drug dealers and felons." Kenteris, 37, won gold in the 200m at the Sydney Olympics in 2000. At the same Games Thanou, 36, won silver in the 100m. Their long-postponed trial began in January, after which it suffered further delays.
Eritrea is the only African country to have no privately-owned news media. The state of media freedom has been described as "scandalous" by watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF). The government has maintained a monopoly over domestic radio and television since independence. The few privately-owned newspapers were all closed in 2001 as part of a crackdown on the opposition. The state media strongly backs the government while accusing the opposition and the West (especially the USA) of undermining the country and of supporting its main enemy, Ethiopia. Outlets run by Eritreans overseas - mainly in Europe, North America and Australia - provide alternative sources of information, but their reach and influence inside Eritrea are limited, not least because of very low levels of internet access. Eritrea was described by RSF in its 2014 World Press Freedom Index as "Africa's biggest prison for the media", with 28 journalists in detention. The watchdog placed Eritrea last in its ranking of 180 countries surveyed for the seventh year running. There were around 377,000 internet users (6 per cent of the population) by December 2013, according to  Internetworldstats website. RSF says while there is no widespread filtering, some diaspora websites have been blocked. Bloggers and other web users have been threatened.
Prime minister: Hailemariam Desalegn Hailemariam Desalegn was sworn in as prime minister of Ethiopia in September 2012, ending a period of uncertainty following the death of long-term leader Meles Zenawi. As a former deputy prime minister and foreign minister, Mr Hailemariam was considered a close ally of Meles Zenawi and following his swearing in, pledged to continue his "legacy without any change". Meles Zenawi, who led the country since overthrowing the previous regime in 1991, died of complications following a long illness. He was praised by many for his success in revitalising Ethiopia's economy but criticised for his human rights record and his failure to allow a full democracy to flourish in Ethiopia. He led the country to war against Eritrea in 1998, and also sent troops into Somalia. Mr Hailemariam is to stay in office until elections in 2015. An engineer by training he leads the ruling coalition Ethiopian People Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). Mr Hailemariam became acting prime minister on the death of Mr Meles in August, but faced a backroom struggle to gain the approval of the Front leadership before assuming the most powerful post in the country. A Protestant Christian from the small Welayta ethnic group in southern Ethiopia, Mr Hailemariam had worked in academia and regional government while many EPRDF luminaries came to the fore through fighting against the Communist government in the 1980s. He benefited from a scheme Mr Meles launched in 2009 to bring technocrats into central government, and earned a reputation as a loyal aide to the prime minister.
The EU's top court has ruled that a retired German man in a same-sex civil partnership should enjoy the same tax status as a married man when his pension is calculated. The city of Hamburg had rejected Juergen Roemer's plea to be put in a more favourable tax category. But that decision may amount to sex discrimination, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled. Mr Roemer claimed he was entitled to 302 euros (£265) a month more. The judges said that under German law same-sex partnerships - called "registered life partnerships" - are now comparable to marriage. Mr Roemer had worked for the Hamburg city authorities for 40 years. He retired in 1990 and in October 2001 told his former employer that he had established a registered life partnership with his male partner. Mr Roemer had been living with his companion since 1969 and German same-sex partnerships were given legal status in February 2001. While many European states recognise homosexual civil unions, only Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal, Sweden, Norway and Iceland legally acknowledge same-sex marriage. The ECJ ruling on Tuesday may give legal weight to similar claims in other EU countries. The judges said individuals could claim against a local authority for the right to equal treatment under EU law, even if national law contained no provision relevant to their case.
A Celtic fan who made monkey gestures towards Rangers player El Hadji Diouf during an Old Firm game has been jailed for three months. Sean Smith, 19, from Spittal, South Lanarkshire, taunted the West African striker as he took a corner kick at Celtic Park on 20 February. He admitted committing a racially aggravated breach of the peace after being reported by fellow Celtic fans. Smith was also banned from attending football matches for five years. Sentencing him at Glasgow Sheriff Court, Sheriff Lindsay Wood told Smith he had pleaded guilty to "despicable racist behaviour". "You thought you were making a fool of the player but you were actually making a fool of yourself. "You have brought shame on the club you support and on Scottish football generally." Sheriff Wood noted that Smith had been drinking before the game, but said this was "no way to go to a football match and appreciate it". He added: "I have to look at these matters in the context of an Old Firm match where tensions are running high and I can see no alternative to a custodial sentence to mark the court's disapproval of such behaviour." Defence lawyer Raymond McIlwham told the court that his client has received death threats as a result of what he did. He also added that Diouf has a bad relationship with Celtic fans. Mr McIlwham said: "The relationship between the player involved and the Celtic fans has been a difficult one. "That in no way excuses Mr Smith's actions but it's conceivable that another player may not have roused that level of passion in a supporter." The lawyer added that his client is ashamed and now "deeply regrets" what he did.
Germany's Silvana Koch-Mehrin has resigned as a vice-president of the European Parliament, after claims that she plagiarised her university thesis. Ms Koch-Mehrin, aged 40, also stepped down from the board of the liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP). The University of Heidelberg is re-examining Ms Koch-Mehrin's academic work on currency unions. In March, German Defence Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg was forced to quit over plagiarism charges. Mr Guttenberg, a member of the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats (CDU), was also stripped of his PhD by the University of Bayreuth. On Wednesday, Ms Koch-Mehrin said in a statement that she also resigned as chairwoman of the FDP in the European parliament. "I hope to make it easier for my party to make a fresh start with a new leadership team," she said. The move comes after an investigative website - VroniPlag Wiki - raised doubts about the liberal politician's 2001 thesis, called Historical Currency Unions between the Economy and Politics. Ms Koch-Mehrin allegedly failed to source the 227-page document properly. She has not publicly commented on the allegations. The resignation is seen by some German analysts as a fresh blow to the FDP - the junior party in Mrs Merkel's coalition - which is trying to recover from plunging popularity ratings. Last month, party leader Guido Westerwelle was forced to step aside. A new head is expected to be chosen later this week.
About 100 people have signed up for a naked cycle ride through Exeter to highlight how vulnerable cyclists are on the road. The event has been organised by environmental campaigners as part of World Naked Bike Ride on 11 June. Others rides are due to take place in London, Brighton, Southampton, Manchester, Sheffield, Bristol, Portsmouth and York. Exeter organiser Maurice Spurway said total nudity was not compulsory. "We're not expecting everyone to be naked - I'm not going to be totally naked," he told BBC News. It has been described as a "peaceful, positive and fun protest exposing the need to rediscover non-oil-dependent modes of transport, and highlight the vulnerability of cyclists". Mr Spurway is part of Exeter Cycle Vision, which aims to create a culture where cycling is the main way of getting about the city. The car, he said, mitigated against that vision and he said he hoped the naked bike ride would be the "culture shock" needed to kickstart the process of "greening" the city. Participants in the bike ride are being encouraged to paint their bodies. "It'll be quite a splash as we cycle up the High Street," Mr Spurway added. Organisers are meeting Devon and Cornwall Police later to discuss the event and acceptable levels of decency. A police spokesman said while he respected the campaigners right to protest, he hoped common sense and respect would prevail and people would be sensible about their level of nudity. Complete nudity, he said, was not acceptable, and officers would be obliged to uphold the law if complaints from the public were received.
Piracy off the Somali coast costs the international community up to $8.3bn (£5.1bn) a year, a new report from the Geopolicity consultancy estimates. That sum could reach $13-15bn by 2015, it says. It calculates that a pirate can earn up to $79,000 a year. "Given the supply and demand for piracy services... there is plenty of room for expansion," the report warns. The EU Navfor anti-piracy force says 23 vessels and 530 hostages are currently being held. Geopolicity, which specialises in economic intelligence, forecasts an annual increase of 200-400 in the number of pirates operating off the Somali coast. Piracy cost between $4.9bn and $8.3bn in 2010, it estimates, taking into account the effect on maritime trade volume, the expanding area in which pirates operate and the more sophisticated tactics used to combat them. Piracy risks becoming a problem across African, Mediterranean and Pacific Rim waters, it warns. Total income to pirates and from piracy was $75m-$238m in 2010, the study says. And it highlights the earning potential of pirates in an impoverished country with few other opportunities, no government and no rule of law. While an individual pirate could earn $33,000-$79,000 a year, the next best alternative would bring in only $500 annually, or $14,500 over a lifetime. The consulting group highlights what it calls the "Pirate Value Chain" of pirates, financiers and sponsors. "Pirates are visible and known, financiers are harder to track, and sponsors remain invisible," it says. Geopolicity says its research charts "largely unknown territory", underlining the "relatively weak application of economics to the problem of piracy". "The supply of pirates, therefore, is closely related to the expected benefits of being a pirate and the associated risk-adjusted costs," the study says.
The latest attempt by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss to re-open their case against Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been rejected. They had asked the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco to reconsider its April ruling upholding the $65m (Â£40m) settlement from 2008. The twins say that Facebook concealed information and they should have received more Facebook shares. Mr Zuckerberg denies their claims that he stole the idea of Facebook. In April, a three-judge panel decided not to scrap the original settlement and not to allow a fresh case to begin. In their latest move, the Winklevoss twins had asked for a full panel of 11 judges to review that decision. No fresh reasons were given for declining the appeal. Their lawyer Jerome Falk said in a statement that they would appeal to the Supreme Court. The 2008 settlement gave them $20m in cash and $45m of stock valued at $36 a share. But the shares are not yet traded anywhere, and the brothers say that they were duped because internally the shares were only valued at $9. Their claim that Mr Zuckerberg stole their website idea while they were all students at Harvard was made famous by the film The Social Network.
A reading chair designed and used by TE Lawrence at his home in Dorset has been loaned to a German museum. The chair, from Clouds Hill in Wareham, has been loaned to Rautenstrauch-Joest Museum in KÃ¶ln, until December. Clouds Hill, which is cared for by the National Trust, now has a replica chair. The original was made for Lawrence, who became famous as Lawrence of Arabia, in 1933 and is thought to have been crafted in Southampton. The leather upholstery chair with sprung sheepskin cushions arrived at Clouds Hill cottage in January 1934 - 18 months before Lawrence died following a motorcycle accident. In order to keep it preserved no one is allowed to sit in the original chair, but visitors to the cottage are being invited to sit in the replica seat. James Grasby, a National Trust curator, said: "Normally we are reluctant to loan items during the open season, so as not to disappoint visitors by their absence. "But by having a replica made we can let visitors not only see what it looks like, but to experience just how comfortable this chair was to sit in." The original chair has an accompanying stainless steel book rest and was placed by the fire in the downstairs book room of Clouds Hill, which was also his bedroom. Mr Grasby added: "Sitting there he must have appeared like a pilot in the cockpit of a fighter plane, navigating his way through the virtual worlds laid out in his huge collection of books."
President: John Dramani Mahama Vice-President John Dramani Mahama became interim head of state following the death of President John Atta Mills in July 2012. Mr Mahama won his first full term in office in an extremely tight election a few months later in December, defeating Nana Akufo-Addo of the opposition New Patriotic Party with only 50.7% of the vote to Mr Addo's 47.7%. The NPP said he had won fraudulently, but its legal challenge to the result was rejected by the supreme court in August 2013. Several foreign observer teams, including those of the African Union and regional body Ecowas, declared the election free and fair. His first year as elected president was overshadowed by poor economic news, with sharp rises in inflation and the government deficit. Mr Mahama is a respected historian, writer and communications specialist. Regarded as a champion of the underprivileged, he has a keen interest in environmental issues, particularly the problem of plastic pollution in Africa. His book, entitled "My First Coup d'Etat" was published in July 2012. He studied in Ghana and Moscow. Between 1991 and 1995 he worked as an information officer at the Japanese embassy in Accra. He joined the non-governmental organization PLAN International in 1995. He was elected as a member of parliament in 1996, and served communications minister between 1998 and 2001. In opposition from 2005 to 2011, Mr Mahama served as parliamentary spokesman for foreign affairs. Mr Mahama was born at Bole-Bamboi in the Northern Region in 1958. He is married and has seven children.
Three men have been arrested following the seizure of eight million cigarettes in County Armagh. Two men from Armagh were arrested on Tuesday evening, during a raid on commercial premises in which the cigarettes were found. A third man, also from Armagh, was arrested on Wednesday after follow up searches in County Antrim. The cigarettes represent an estimated £1.7m in lost tax duty to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). The raids were carried out as part of a cross-border operation targeting the illicit tobacco trade. A number of agencies were involved, including HMRC, the PSNI and the UK Border Agency. The cigarettes, thought to have originated in Dubai, were being off-loaded from a 40-foot trailer into a warehouse when officers launched the raid. John Whiting, Assistant Director Criminal Investigation, HMRC said: "Tobacco smuggling is organised crime on a global scale with huge profits ploughed straight back into the criminal underworld, feeding activities like drug dealing, people smuggling and fraud." "Purchasing cheap cigarettes without the duty paid on them means trading with criminals, and undermining honest businesses." Tobacco fraudsters cost the UK taxpayer an estimated £2bn every year. The men arrested on Tuesday have been released on bail. The man arrested on Wednesday is still being questioned by HMRC. The investigation continues.
Efforts to improve access to HIV drugs in China have cut deaths by more than 60% in seven years, researchers say. China introduced free anti-retroviral drugs in 2003, reaching more than 60% of patients by 2009. But experts say more needs to be done to speed up diagnosis and improve access to treatment in certain groups. They include men, the elderly, migrants and ethnic minority groups, injecting drug users and people who have caught HIV through sexual contact. The findings are published online in the Lancet Infectious Diseases journal. Lead author Professor Fujie Zhang, from the National Centre for Aids/STD Control and Prevention, in Beijing, said: "Given the size of the country, and the geographical spread of individuals with HIV... China's treatment coverage is remarkable... but it is far from the goal of complete coverage of people who meet the treatment criteria." Commenting on the study, Terrence Higgins Trust clinical director Jason Warriner said: "We know that access to testing and treatment, in the form of anti-retrovirals, is vital both in preventing deaths from HIV and stopping more people becoming infected. "The earlier people are diagnosed with HIV the greater chance they have of being able to lead a long and healthier life. "But there also needs to be ongoing education and awareness of HIV to help prevent more people becoming infected in the future."
Museum officials at the former Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland have restored the metal entrance sign damaged in a theft 17 months ago. The "Arbeit macht frei" (work sets you free) sign was stolen by a gang of Polish thieves acting at the behest of a Swedish far-right-winger. Technicians unveiled the restored sign in the laboratory of the camp museum. More than one million people, mostly Jews from across Europe, were murdered by the Nazis at the camp. Most of the work to restore the damaged sign was done on site, but a master blacksmith welded it back together. The museum's director, Piotr Cywinski, said the sign would probably form part of a new exhibition. A copy of the original has been placed above the entrance gate. Thieves had cut up the black wrought-iron sign into its three constituent words in order to fit it into their getaway car after taking it down from the main gate. Following a nationwide search, police found the sign a few days later in a rural area hundreds of kilometres away. Five Polish men have been convicted of carrying out the theft on behalf of a Swedish man, Anders Hoegstroem, who helped found the far-right National Socialist Front party in Sweden in 1994. He is serving a prison sentence in his homeland following his conviction in Poland.
A baby girl whose body was found at a waste management site in Bradford may have died several days before she was found, police have said. The baby was found by staff at the firm in Valley Road, Bradford, in the early hours of Thursday. West Yorkshire Police said a post-mortem examination had confirmed the girl may have died two or three days before she was found. The examination proved inconclusive for the cause of death. Police said it was "unlikely" the baby, who was white, had been born in hospital. They also said they were not ruling out the possibility the baby may have been from an area of West Yorkshire other than Leeds and Bradford. Inquiries revealed the waste management site received 97 loads of waste on Wednesday, 51 of which were from Bradford while the remainder were from elsewhere in the county. Det Supt Sukhbir Singh said the police remained "greatly concerned for the mother's condition and welfare". "Our focus continues to be to identify this baby's mother and I would urge her friends, relatives and neighbours to contact West Yorkshire Police. "Somebody in West Yorkshire must know who the mother of this child is and I would ask them to provide the key piece of information we need to find her." Staff working at the company who discovered the body have been offered counselling. Det Supt Sukhbir Singh said: "They were clearly distressed by the discovery. "They are being provided with and offered the support that they need."
An Australian woman who had discussed fertility treatments with her husband before he died has been allowed by a court to use his frozen sperm for IVF. Justice Robert Hulme in the New South Wales Supreme Court ruled that Jocelyn Edwards was entitled to use the sperm. It had been extracted posthumously from her husband, Mark Edwards, after he died in an accident at work. The case was a landmark in a state where IVF treatment is banned without the consent of the donor. Ms Edwards will need to move to another state to have the sperm inseminated. "It's the right decision. Mark would be so happy, we're going to have our baby. That's what I plan to do," she said outside the court. "I just want to get past today, enjoy the moment. It's been a long, long, long, difficult time," she added. Ms Edwards, 40, married her husband in 2005; the couple began discussing the use of fertility treatment and assisted reproductive technology after she failed to get pregnant. They had attended a clinic in early August 2010 and conducted tests, expressing their desire to try in-vitro fertilisation (IVF). The day before their next appointment, Mr Edwards was fatally injured. Ms Edwards asked for and got legal permission to extract sperm from her husband posthumously. This has been held at a laboratory pending the court case. "Although there is no direct evidence, the clear and only inference is that she desires to have a child with the aid of assisted reproductive treatment," the judge said. Justice Hulme said the choice was either to destroy the sperm or give it to Ms Edwards and he ruled in her favour as the administrator of her late husband's estate.
Manchester United became the first club to lift the FA Youth Cup 10 times after beating Sheffield United 4-1 to seal a 6-3 final win on aggregate. A day after their senior side collected the league trophy for a record 19th time with highly rated Ravel Morrison and Will Keane each scoring twice. Sir Alex Ferguson was in the stands to witness the historic triumph against a talented group of young Blades players. They pegged United back twice in the first leg but were outplayed on Monday. Sheffield-born Jordan Slew, who has already made eight first-team appearances and has a couple of England under-19 caps to his name, impressed for the visitors. He went close on a couple of occasions before the break, including a dipping shot that had Sam Johnstone scrambling across his goal to watch it to safety. For Manchester United - for whom Sir Matt Busby's 'Babes' won the Youth Cup five years on the trot from 1953 - French import Paul Pogba, Ryan Tunnicliffe, Morrison and Keane all shone brightly. But Morrison was the key player - securing his brace through a smart piece of control and finish in the first half and a run and low shot from 20 yards in the second. With Keane scoring from the spot and adding his own second, United were ultimately comfortable winners, rendering Joe Ironside's strike for the Blades nothing more than a consolation.
Countdown presenter Jeff Stelling is to leave after less than three years hosting the Channel 4 quiz show. Stelling told a Tenerife radio station he had resigned from the show to concentrate on his presenting role at Sky Sports where he will front Champions League coverage next season. A Channel 4 spokeswoman said Stelling would continue to present the long-running show until the end of the year. She added discussions had already begun to find his replacement. "You've really got to have your priorities and my priority is football, I love it, and Soccer Saturday, so I've committed myself very much to that next season," Stelling told Oasis FM. The fourth person to front Countdown, Stelling joined the series in 2009 along with maths whizz Rachel Riley, replacing Des O'Connor and Carol Vorderman. The host said he would miss working with Riley, adding: "I just felt I had to really try to focus on the things that I love." Channel 4 said: "Jeff's had a brilliant three years on the show and we're sad to see him go." Countdown was the first programme to be broadcast when Channel 4 launched in November 1982. It was originally fronted by Richard Whiteley, who died in 2005, and Vorderman, who spent 26 years on the show. Des Lynam took over as host following Whiteley's death and was then replaced by O'Connor in 2006.
820 Squadron at RNAS Culdrose has been commemorating its role in the sinking of the German battleship the Bismarck, 70 years ago. A special exhibition for schoolchildren took place at the Naval base, telling the story of the battle. The ship was caught when a torpedo from one of the Squadron's Swordfish planes hit her and damaged the rudder. Commissioned in August 1940, The Bismarck was one of the most famous warships of the Second World War. Hannah Quigley from 820 Squadron explained: "We managed to get the line open again for the ships to come across from America and get supplies back into Britain which was good when we were struggling with rations, so it was really good that we managed to get rid of the Bismarck." At 45,000 tons, the Bismarck, was the largest battleship in the Kriegsmarine (German navy) and contravened the Anglo-German Naval Treaty of 1935 which limited German battleships to a maximum of 35,000 tons. On the morning of 27 May 1941 the HMS King George V, HMS Rodney, HMS Dorsetshire and HMS Norfolk caught up with the incapacitated Bismarck where it was heavily attacked for almost two hours before sinking. One of the children at the exhibition, Georgia Higgs, said: "I learnt that it was quite a big factor in Britain's victory in the war."
President Dilma Rousseff has suspended the distribution and production of sex education films for schools in Brazil. President Rousseff believes the footage is not suitable for youngsters. The education packs contain gay and lesbian video scenes and are supposed to combat homophobia. However, evangelical church groups and their allies in Congress threatened to block any upcoming legislation unless President Rousseff halted the films. A government spokesman said President Rousseff had viewed the material personally and decided to suspend its distribution. "She didn't like what she saw," Gilberto Carvalho said. He said President Rousseff was unhappy with the footage and believed it did not offer an objective picture of homosexuality. The "anti-homophobia kits", as they are known in Brazil, were about to be rolled out by Brazil's ministry of health and the ministry of education. Several members of Brazil's chamber of deputies with strong evangelic Christian beliefs said the sex education packs encouraged homosexual behaviour. Gay and lesbian rights campaigners have expressed serious concerns. A leading rights campaigner and congressman, Jean Wyllys, said the decision called into question President Rousseff's commitment to human rights. "I voted for her in the last elections," he said, "because I thought she would defend the rights of lesbian, gay and bisexual citizens." "If she doesn't do a U-turn and change her mind, I will urge all gay people not to vote for her again."
Children who get insufficient sleep at night are more likely to become overweight, according to researchers in New Zealand. A study, published on the BMJ website, followed 244 children between the ages of three and seven. It said more sleep was linked to a lower weight, which could have important public health consequences. UK experts said there was "no harm" in drawing attention to the link between reduced sleep and ill health. The children were seen every six months when their weight, height and body fat were measured. Their sleeping habits and physical-activity levels were recorded at ages three, four and five. The researchers found that those children who had less sleep in their earlier years were at greater risk of having a higher Body Mass Index at age seven. This link continued even when other risk factors, such as gender and physical activity, were accounted for in their research. Suggested reasons for the link include simply having more time to eat and changes to hormones affecting appetite. In an accompanying analysis, Professors Francesco Cappuccio and Michelle Miller, from the University of Warwick, said future research should "explore and validate new behavioural, non-drug based, methods to prolong children's and adults' sleeping time. "In the meantime it would do no harm to advise people that a sustained curtailment of sleeping time might contribute to long-term ill health in adults and children." Dr Ian Maconochie, from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health said: "Children under five generally average at least 11 hours sleep at night and in daytime naps. "However, 20% of children at this age experience problems sleeping, and we already know that inadequate sleep has a significant impact on attention, memory, behaviour, and school performance. This paper is a useful addition to our knowledge of children's sleep patterns."
The US government has been sent a London congestion charge bill for Barack Obama's convoy, including his limousine, nicknamed The Beast. Mayor Boris Johnson said the motorcade was charged, unlike the Popemobile, because roads were not closed. He and Mr Obama exchanged "points of view", he said, over £5.2m worth of unpaid congestion bills when they met. The US Embassy said it was exempt from paying "direct taxes" but the mayor maintains the charge is not a tax. Transport for London has confirmed that the Presidential convoy was charged but the bill has not been paid. Mr Johnson said: "Unlike the Pope where we didn't charge the Popemobile because we closed the roads, when The Beast rolled through London that Beast paid a congestion charge. "But on the wider principle of US and other diplomats following on the lead of the majority of good embassies in London, who pay the congestion charge, a discussion was had, points of views were exchanged, I would say that discussions were ongoing." Several embassies refuse to pay the £10-a-day charge for driving in central London, claiming they are exempted from local taxes. The total bill stands at £51m and the US, Russia and Japan are the top three in the list of non-payers. In a statement, the US Embassy said it "conscientiously abides by all UK laws, including paying fines for all traffic violations, such as parking and speeding violations". "Our position on the direct tax established by Transport for London in 2003, more commonly known as the congestion charge, is based on the 1960 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which prohibits the imposition of this sort of tax on diplomatic missions," the statement added. Mr Johnson has said previously that the levy was not a tax but a charge for services.
A hedgehog is facing a life in captivity due to a mystery condition that has left it without spines. Six-week-old Betty was handed into Foxy Lodge Wildlife Rescue in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, in August last year. Ten months on it is feared she may never go back into the wild because the spines that grew fell out, making her prone to predators. "The only way it can protect itself is with its spikes," said John Garner from the wildlife centre. "She's currently got one or two little spikes but they get to a couple of millimetres long and then they just fall out. "Even if she made it until the winter when it's hibernation time she just wouldn't survive because the spikes are a type of hollow hair which gives them warmth as well." It is believed the problem is a genetic disorder. Betty's lack of spines means she cannot spend too long in the sun and she has also become frightened of other hedgehogs after many in the centre excluded her. It is hoped Betty will eventually grow her spines back, but if she does not the shelter said it would continue to home her. "Unfortunately, unless she gets her spikes she will live her days out with us. It's a shame but she is well treated here," said Mr Garner. It is not the first time a bald hedgehog has turned up to the centre, prompting fears there could be a family with the condition in the town. In 2009 a hedgehog with a similar condition was taken to Foxy Lodge but died soon after.
Britons who can defend the nation's networks armed only with a keyboard are being sought in a national competition. Now in its second year, the Cyber Security Challenge aims to uncover the UK's future cyber warriors. Via a series of online and face-to-face challenges entrants are asked to thwart hack attacks, defend networks and track down criminals. Prizes for the winners include training courses and cash to help them pursue a career in computer security. The competition was set up to address the looming shortfall in cyber security workers that the UK is facing. From 1 June, anyone interested in entering the competition can register via the website in preparation for the series of challenges that will run over the next 12 months. The challenge is arranged around three streams which test the skills established computer security experts call on in their day-to-day work. Entrants can take challenges dealing with how to design secure networks, digital forensics and cyber defence. This year one-off quizzes are being offered alongside the on-going competitions so those in full-time employment have more of a chance to take part. Each stream will have up to three competitions and the winners of these will go through to an elimination round. Those that triumph in the eliminators will compete for the chance to be grand champion. The elimination rounds involve live challenges such as defending a network against incoming attacks. Dan Summers, a postman from Wakefield, was the winner of the first UK Cyber Security Challenge and took home prizes worth ??6,000.
A bottle of nearly 200-year-old champagne has been sold for 30,000 euros ($43,900; £26,700) at an auction in Finland - in what is believed to be a new world record. The Veuve Clicquot bubbly was bought by an anonymous bidder from Singapore, auctioneers in Mariehamn said. The same buyer paid 24,000 euros for another bottle of champagne, which was made by the now defunct Juglar house. They were found in a shipwreck at the bottom of the Baltic Sea last year. In all, more than 140 bottles were discovered by divers, and the wine is said to be in "exquisite" condition. Friday's auction at Acker Merrall & Conditt took place in Mariehamn, the capital of the autonomous Aaland Islands between Finland and Sweden, near to the place where the bottles were found. "This is an emotional bottle, because this is the wine of Madame Clicquot herself," Veuve Clicquot historian Fabienne Moreau told the AFP news agency, referring to Barbe-Nicole Clicquot Ponsardin - the woman who ran the famous house in the 19th Century. Experts believe that the booty from the shipwreck dates from about 1825-1830. The auctioneers said the previous record was set in 2008, when a bottle of 1959 Dom Perignon Rose sold for 27,600 euros. This has not been independently confirmed. However, Mr Moreau, who had sampled the champagne, said the price "proves the value of the wine and the prestige of the house". According to records, Clicquot champagne was first produced in 1772 but was laid down for 10 years. Production was disrupted after the French Revolution in 1789. The wine found in the Baltic Sea was perfectly preserved because of the conditions of dark and cold on the seabed. The Aaland authorities now want to turn the champagne auction into an annual event to boost tourism.
Blue Peter presenter Andy Akinwolere has set two world records for swimming in one of the deepest stretches of water on the planet. Mr Akinwolere swam five miles across the Palau Trench, an 8,000-metre deep abyss in the Pacific Ocean. He is the first person to swim across the deepest part of the trench, and now holds the record for the deepest location for an open water swim. He took three and a half hours to complete his swim. His records were verified by the World Open Water Swimming Association. Until a few weeks ago, Mr Akinwolere was unable to swim a length and was terrified of open water. He said: "It's an absolute triumph to have completed this swim, after having had just over 10 weeks of swimming training I still cannot believe how far I've come. "I could not swim a length before this and now I have swum over one of the deepest parts of the world. "All the hours of gruelling training will be worth it if my challenge inspires more children from ethnic minorities to learn to swim." The story of his swim will be screened in a Blue Peter special - Andy's Big Splash - on Monday 20 June on BBC One.
Left-wing nationalist Ollanta Humala, 48, first came to national prominence in 2000 when he led a short-lived military rebellion against then-President Alberto Fujimori. But he insists that in the decade since, he has changed - and so has Peru. In 2006, the former army colonel came second in the presidential election run-off to Alan Garcia. Then his left-wing views won widespread support among Peru's poor majority, but worried the upper and middle-classes and led some to compare him to Venezuela's Hugo Chavez. But during the 2011 election campaign, he adopted a more moderate stance. He played down his former ties to Mr Chavez and emphasised instead a desire to follow the lead of Brazil's former president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, and his Workers' Party. Mr Humala said he would expand the state's role in the economy and extract higher royalties from mining companies that account for more than half Peru's exports, and use the money to reduce poverty. But he also promised careful fiscal policy and respect for Peru's free trade deals. His critics worry he will move Peru in a more populist, authoritarian direction and damage the economy. Mr Humala has insisted he will respect the constitution and the rule of law, swearing on the Bible in May to uphold democracy and press freedom. Mr Humala has been accused of committing human rights abuses during the fight against Shining Path rebels in the 1990s when he was an army captain, but he has denied the allegations.
Serena Williams has confirmed she will return to action at next week's Aegon International event in Eastbourne. The American, 29, has not played since beating Vera Zvonareva in last year's Wimbledon final. Shortly after winning that event, she cut her foot on broken glass then needed treatment for a blood clot in her lung. Also among the field for the Wimbledon warm-up are Serena's sister Venus and French Open champion Li Na. Venus has not played since retiring in her third-round match at January's Australian Open with an abdominal injury. Serena's problems started when she cut her foot in Germany shortly after claiming her fourth Wimbledon title. She played in an exhibition match in Belgium against Kim Clijsters days later but had the first of two operations on the injury when she returned to the United States. The second surgery was in October, followed by 10 weeks in a cast and 10 weeks in a walking boot. In February, she was diagnosed with the blood clot and also needed treatment for a gathering of blood under the skin on her stomach "I am so excited to be healthy enough to compete again," she said. "These past 12 months have been extremely tough and character building." Media playback is not supported on this device
Shrek the New Zealand sheep, whose ability to avoid the shearers made him a national celebrity, has died. Shrek came to prominence in 2004 after evading capture for six years by hiding in caves on the South Island. The cunning Merino lost his giant 27kg (60lb) fleece in a televised shearing. The 16-year-old sheep had a high-profile career. He met then Prime Minister Helen Clark, became the subject of several children's books and made regular charity appearances. Shrek's owner, John Perriam, of Bendigo Hill station, said the famous sheep had to be put down over the weekend because of age-related illnesses. "He was just an ordinary sheep, went Awol and hid, and when he was found he became the darling of the nation," Mr Perriam told local broadcaster TVNZ. "He had an unbelievable personality. He loved children and he was really good with the elderly in retirement homes." Shrek's giant fleece - enough to make 20 large men's suits - was auctioned off in 2004 for children's medical charities. Josie Spillane of Cure Kids said over the years Shrek had raised more than $150,000 (Â£75,000) for the charity, which funded research into life-threatening illnesses. "At the end of the day, it is the death of an iconic Kiwi. He just happens to be a sheep," she told the Southland Times. Local reports said a memorial service would be held for Shrek at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Tekapo, and that his owner planned to place a bronze statue of the sheep in the local town. Mr Perriam said that Shrek's legacy would continue.
Kenya has a diverse media scene, supported by a sizable middle class that sustains a substantial advertising market. A handful of major players dominates the industry. One of them, Nation Media Group, has extended its operations to neighbouring countries. The state-run Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) is funded from advertising revenue and a government-provided budget. Television is the main news source in cities and towns. The spread of viewing in rural areas has been slower, hampered by limited access to mains electricity. A switchover to digital TV is under way. The main satellite pay-TV platforms are South Africa's MultiChoice and its Kenyan rival Wananchi Group, which operates Zuku TV. Entertainment, music and phone-ins dominate the vibrant radio scene, which includes Islamic stations and those broadcasting in local languages. Radio remains the main medium in rural areas, where most Kenyans live. Full-time FM relays of the BBC World Service are on the air in Nairobi (93.9), Mombasa (93.9) and Kisumu (88.1). The highly-competitive press sector is the most sophisticated in the region. The print media are dominated by two publishing houses, the Nation and Standard. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) ranked Kenya at 90th (out of 180 countries) in its 2014 global Press Freedom Index. A controversial new system of media regulation introduced in 2013 has drawn protests from media organisations and human rights groups. Internet use is high by regional standards, and submarine cables have boosted Kenya's global connectivity. The widespread use of mobiles enables millions to access the web. The platform is particularly important in rural areas. There were 21 million internet users by December 2013 (via Internetworldstats.com). Many Kenyans have embraced social media. Facebook is said to be edging out email as a preferred mode of communication.
Two wild elephants have gone on a rampage in southern India, killing at least one person, officials say. The elephants left a trail of destruction in a suburb of the city of Mysore, in the state of Karnataka. Officials say the animals walked into the city from a nearby forest, leaving residents running for their lives. Officials say that one elephant barged into a women's college compound and wandered the grounds, while the other wreaked havoc in a residential area. Forest rangers and officials from Mysore Zoo later tranquilised and captured the animals. A 55-year-old man who left his house in the Bamboo Bazaar area of Mysore after hearing the commotion was trampled to death, Karnataka state Higher Education Minister SA Ramdas told AFP news agency. Mr Ramdas said schools and colleges in the city were closed throughout Wednesday and extra police had been deployed as a precaution. State forest department officials said the young elephants came from forest about 35km (22 miles) from the city. They say that two other elephants remain at large on the outskirts of Mysore. One official blamed the rampage on human encroachment into areas traditionally inhabited by elephants. "Unregulated expansion of farm lands and increasing movement of people and vehicles through the elephant corridor are making the wild jumbos enter into villages and towns in search of food and shelter," he told AFP. Mr Ramdas said that the two captured elephants would be released back into the wild.
The Vivienne Westwood shoes which brought Naomi Campbell to her knees have been put on show in County Durham. The British designer's blue nine-inch high mock-crocodile skin shoes had been worn by the model when she fell at a 1993 catwalk show in Paris. The exhibition at the Bowes Museum shows off shoes from Westwood's range since 1973. Visitors have until 10 July to catch the exhibition before it travels to Japan, New York and China. The handmade mock-crocodile skin shoes, pictured, became famous when supermodel Naomi Campbell fell while wearing the blue, nine-inch platform-heeled Super Elevated Gillie shoes at a catwalk show in 1993. Ahead of the exhibition, Westwood said: "Shoes must have very high heels and platforms to put women's beauty on a pedestal." Joanna Hashagen, keeper of textiles at the Bowes Museum, said the shoes, including the infamous "Super Elevated Gillie" shoes, were "works of art in themselves". She said: "We all know about how fantastic her clothes are, but this is the first time anyone has really focused on her shoe collection. "They are just staggering - and they are made from everything, anything you could think of. "When you see them, you see they are sculptures, they are works of art in themselves."
Jersey's Lieutenant Governor, Lieutenant-General Andrew Ridgway, has been knighted in the Queen's Birthday Honours list. He said: "This role is very much a team game and [my wife] Valerie has played a huge part in it, as a result of my honour she becomes Lady Ridgway and I think that is only right and just." They are coming to the end of their five years in Jersey. Four other islanders were appointed MBE. Among them is Dr Lee Durrell, of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation trust, who has been recognised for her conservation work. She said: "The way I look at it, it is certainly not for myself. "It is for the work that I do with Durrell, so really it is for Durrell and all the people that work here and all the animals we are trying to save." Senator Paul Routier is appointed MBE for services to the community and to those with learning difficulties. Senator Routier said: "If I have been able to support people with learning difficulties during that time and to achieve their potential in their lives then it has been all worthwhile. "A lot has been achieved during that time and I am very proud of it." Michael Wilkins, the Judicial Greffier, is appointed MBE for services to the judicial system in Jersey, in particular for his work and co-operation in international bankruptcy matters. Nick Manning, the director of music for the Band of the Island of Jersey, is appointed MBE for services to the band and the community as a whole. He has been in the band nearly 40 years and took over as conductor in 1994. Mr Manning said: "It was something totally unexpected and I am overwhelmed and so honoured to receive it."
West Midlands Ambulance Service (WMAS) had the second worst response rate in England for serious emergencies in 2009-10 after Yorkshire's service. The National Audit Office (NAO) said WMAS had responded within eight minutes 72.5% of the time. The Yorkshire Ambulance Service figure was 70.8%. The national target is to respond within eight minutes 75% of the time. Both ambulance services said the data was out of date and they had since improved their response times. Before the financial year 2009-10, WMAS NHS Trust argued that it was among the worst-funded ambulance services in the country. An independent study, the Lightfoot report, concluded in September 2009 that WMAS had been historically underfunded. As a result WMAS received more NHS funding and for the remaining months of that financial year, it achieved all of its national performance targets. A spokesman for WMAS said: "The Transforming NHS ambulance services - National Audit Office report carries a variety of information (including ambulance response times) up to the end of the 2009-10 financial year. "It does not carry any information for the year 2010-11 and therefore does not reflect West Midlands Ambulance Service's significant improvement in response times during that year." WMAS service said its response time to serious emergencies within eight minutes in April 2011 was 76.8%. The poor performance of YAS in 2009 was reported to the Care Quality Commission, after which it took urgent action to improve, which included addressing staffing issues. Between April and August 2010 YAS responded to 76.1% of serious emergencies  within eight minutes and in August last year the figure was 78.8%.
The annual Man versus Horse race over 22 miles of Powys countryside has seen an equine triumph once again. More than 300 solo runners, 111 relay teams of three, and 50 of their four-legged rivals took part in the 31st event around Llanwrtyd Wells. Betty Gordon, riding Next in Line Grangeway, was home in 2hr 8m 37s, just over 17 minutes ahead of the first runner, Charlie Pearson. The only occasions when men have won were in 2004 and 2007. The race takes competitors through farm tracks, footpaths, open moorland and tarmac and attracts thousands of spectators. By Friday night 249 runners had registered, and by early Saturday morning there were 100 relay teams of three and 50 horses, although more signed up shortly before the race began. Horses are required to go through three vetting stations - at the start, the midway point and the end of the race and if they fail any checks they are disqualified. The race was affected by heavy showers, and Tony Egan, who organised it for the first time, said that had made the ground "soft and squidgy in places". But he said he had spoken to many competitors, who told him how much they enjoyed the challenge. "They said they had a great time. It's good to see how popular it is," he added. The first woman home was Jenny Horne, of Aberystwyth, in 2hr 46m 41s. The prizes were presented by Alan Hope of the Monster Raving Loony Party, a week before the town stages the Screaming Lord Sutch Official Monster Raving Loony Music Party, in memory of the man who founded the political party. The winner received a cup and 1,000 guineas - although Huw Lobb won Â£25,000 in 2004 after becoming the first human victor.
A 56-year-old says she hopes to become the first woman to have her womb transplanted into her daughter. Eva Ottoson who lives in Nottinghamshire has agreed to take part in the medical procedure that would see her donate her uterus. Her 25-year-old daughter, Sara, who lives in Sweden, was born without reproductive organs. If successful she could become pregnant and carry her child in the same womb that she herself was carried in. The mother and daughter hope the procedure could happen in Sweden next spring. The pair have undergone tests to ascertain their suitability for the transplant operation. Sara Ottoson was born without a uterus because of the condition Mayer Rokitansky Kuster Hauser (MRKH) syndrome. Her mother, who moved to England from Sweden three years ago, said: "From the start when we realised what her condition was she [Sara] has always been talking about adoption. "Then this opportunity came along last autumn. "So I think there are loads of young women out there, who for one reason or another, can't get their own babies and if this could be some way of doing it in the future, why not? "Both me and my daughter are rational about it. "It's just an organ like a kidney or whatever. She needs it, I have it. I don't need it anymore. "I can't see the ethical problems about it really." The only previous womb transplant widely reported occurred in 2000, in Saudi Arabia. A womb from a 46-year-old was given to a 26-year-old but it had to be removed 99 days later because of complications.
Malaysia's minister for women's affairs says a club teaching women to be more obedient to their husbands is giving the Muslim nation a bad image. The "Obedient Wives Club" was started by a fringe Muslim group earlier this month. Its founders say domestic violence and prostitution could be cured by teaching women to keep their men happy in the bedroom. They say women should be "better than a first-class prostitute". That way, the men are less likely to stray or resort to violence, they say. Human rights groups and religious officials have dismissed the club as an insult to both men and women. Malaysia regards itself as a moderate Muslim nation, with women holding key positions in the country. The club is unlikely to gain much popularity but the minister for women, Shahrizat Abdul Jalil, says their activities have given Islam and the country a bad name. In Kazakhstan she was asked by local journalists if Muslim women had rights in Malaysia and whether they were being turned into slaves by their husbands. The club's founders say they expected this type of backlash. This is the same group who launched a controversial polygamy club two years ago. Club organisers have told the BBC they hope to expand their membership across South East Asia.
The woods around the Forth Valley Royal Hospital near Falkirk are to be made into a "green oasis" for patients and staff to "destress". Forestry Commission Scotland, who are paying for the £101,000 project, said it would "transform" the woodlands. The commission is planning to create new paths and cycle tracks, as well as planting more trees. The woods, opposite the Larbert hospital, are also be opened to the local community. Work has already begun to clear vegetation around the loch, which was largely hidden by rhododendrons, the Forestry Commission said. The grant of £101,000 was one of 30 projects announced by Scottish Environment Minister Stewart Stevenson. Officials at the hospital said research had shown that "green exercise" could have a positive impact on mental health. Gordon Harper, the forest ranger based at the hospital, said: "Woodlands are great places to destress and simply get away from it all. If we give the woodland a makeover and improve access it will be more inviting and more people will use it. "This is great news for patients needing gentle exercise or for anyone else wanting to just get a bit more active. We've lots planned for the woodland and we want to local community to get more involved." The Forth Valley Royal Hospital opened to patients in August 2010.
Turkish police have arrested 32 people believed to be members of hacker collective Anonymous. The group has been active in Turkey protesting against government plans to set up a national net filtering system. Action against the group was started following a complaint from the Turkish directorate of telecommunications whose website was hit by Anonymous. The arrests follow similar action by police in Spain who detained three members  of the hacker group. On 22 August, Turkey is planning to turn on a system that demands people sign up for one of four filtering packages designed for different types of users. The Turkish government claims this system is needed to protect younger web users from net-borne dangers. Critics, including Anonymous, say the filtering system will be used to monitor web activity and suppress dissent. Many Turkish people have mounted street demonstrations to protest against the introduction of the filters. On 10 June, Anonymous took action in support of these protests by knocking several Turkish government websites offline. It used an attack tool known as the Low Orbit Ion Cannon (Loic) which bombards targets with so much data that they become overwhelmed. The arrests came only days after the attacks were mounted and Turkish police may have exploited failings with Loic that allow users of it to be traced. Arrests were made in 12 cities around Turkey and eight of those detained are believed to be minors. On 10 June, the Spanish national police announced that it had arrested three people believed to be members of Anonymous. In retaliation, Anonymous took the national police service site offline for a few hours.
Chinese security forces have moved into the southern city of Zengcheng, restoring calm after days of rioting by migrant workers. Witnesses say security personnel are manning roadblocks and patrolling the streets, and have ordered people to stay in their homes overnight. No violent incidents were reported on Monday night. Hundreds of workers rioted at the weekend after a  pregnant woman was allegedly assaulted by security guards. Reports said the woman was shoved to the ground when she refused to move her market stall. The protesters set fire to cars and damaged government buildings in Zengcheng, near the wealthy southern city of Guangzhou. Police reportedly fired tear gas and deployed armoured vehicles. A migrant worker from Sichuan who works in the area told Reuters news agency that people were angry with the system. "I feel the rule of law here doesn't seem to exist... the local officials can do what they want," he said. Some residents told the Associated Press they had been told not to go out at night or post photos of the unrest online. "Nobody wants to come out. They fear running into danger," one factory worker told AP. Complaints about corruption and abuse of power are widespread, especially among migrant workers who are often paid meagre wages. Zengcheng has a booming garments industry, and its 800,000-strong population has been boosted by thousands of migrant workers in recent years - many of whom come from Sichuan province.
A TV and film actor has backed campaigners opposed to a large scale pig farm in Derbyshire. Dominic West, who starred in US crime drama The Wire, said the facility near Foston would wreck the area, where he grew up. He believed protesters needed support to fight the interests of big business. Midlands Pigs Producers (MPP) said the premises would have 2,500 sows and 20,000 piglets and observe the highest welfare standards. Mr West, who had roles in films such as 300 and Centurion, said: "My uncle was a small-scale pig farmer of the sort that would be put out of business by huge factory farms like this. "I became interested in this through a film called Pig Business about the vast factory farms in eastern Europe, so I was quite concerned it was coming here to Derbyshire." He added: "The protesters here are up against a very big business that is interested in not just pig farming but all sorts of money making ventures. "So I hope to raise awareness of what is going on and create a bigger amount of support for the locals whose lives are going to be ruined by this." MPP produces more than 100,000 pigs each year. It controls 30 farms in eight counties and employs more than 150 people. A spokesman said they welcomed debate on the project but pointed out there was already a unit in the UK containing 3,500 sows. The site would also use biogas from the slurry to produce electricity. South Derbyshire District Council handed over duties for dealing with the application to the county council because of its waste implications. The county council confirmed it had received the application but that no date had been set for it to be considered.
Full demolition of a shopping precinct in Pontypridd considered an eyesore by many residents has started and is expected to be completed by the autumn. The Taff Vale centre is being replaced by a new multi-million pound shopping centre. Developers said an anchor tenant has been secured, and the centre will be ready by the end of next summer Construction will take about 12 months and begin soon after demolition. Andy Crompton, of Riddelltps Limited, agents for developers Taff Vale Limited, said: "We aim to start [construction] as soon as possible after the demolition works have been completed. We're aiming to start by the autumn. "We plan to complete the construction work within 12 months." Mr Crompton said he was feeling very positive about the progress that had been made during a "challenging" economic period. "We have now got an agreement in place with an anchor tenant and we expect to announce two further lettings shortly," he said. "The tenant is going to be announced in the next couple of weeks. "The fact we've signed to agree terms with national retailers and are in discussions with others speaks volumes for the scheme we're delivering." The new development, to be called Riverside Shopping Centre, will provide 70,000sq ft (6,500sq m) of retail space providing six units and one restaurant/bar unit. It is seen as an important part of rejuvenating the town after previous plans for the site over many years came to nothing. A Â£10.5m scheme was announced last summer to regenerate Pontypridd town centre and help it attract private investment. Buildings are to be revamped and improvements made to roads, pavements, lighting and street signs.
A bid to create an Enterprise Zone in Hereford is to be submitted to the government. The Marches Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) has been considering bids from Telford and Wrekin, Shropshire and Herefordshire. But the group, which aims to encourage investment in the counties, said it has chosen the Rotherwas Business Park to develop private sector employment. LEP chairman Geoffrey Davies said that it was a very competitive process. "If Hereford is chosen to become an Enterprise Zone, and we'll have to wait and see because this is a very, very, competitive process, then that Enterprise Zone will benefit the whole of the Marches LEP area, not just Hereford." The LEP is made up of councils, businesses and agencies. The zones mean taxes can be cut and a relaxation of some planning rules in small areas to attract new businesses and create new jobs. In Hereford, the LEP said there would be a business rate discount worth up to ??275,000 per eligible business over a five-year period. The bids covered Telford Technology Park and existing business parks in Shrewsbury, the LEP said. If the Hereford bid is successful, up to 6,500 jobs could be created, they added. The jobs estimate is based on site capacity. Earlier this year, the government confirmed that the first Enterprise Zones would be based within 11 LEPs led by Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham and Solihull, Sheffield, Leeds, London, the Bristol area, the Black Country, Derby and Nottingham, Teesside and the North East. The Hereford bid will now be submitted to the government and it is thought a decision will be made in the summer about where the next zones will be, a spokesman said.
Two soldiers have been killed while serving in Afghanistan, the Ministry of Defence has said. A soldier from the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers died after an explosion in southern Afghanistan on Thursday. Another, from the Parachute Regiment, was fatally wounded by small arms fire in Helmand Province on the same day. The next of kin for both soldiers have been told. The first soldier, serving with the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards, was operating in the Gereshk Valley area in Helmand. Lt Col Tim Purbrick, spokesman for Task Force Helmand, said: "During an operation to detain an insurgent, the soldier was working to recover a vehicle which had been damaged in an explosion when he was fatally wounded by an explosive device. "Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends." The number of British military deaths in operations in Afghanistan since 2001 now stands at 373. News of the soldiers' deaths come as mourners prepare to pay their respects to a Military Cross holder also killed in an explosion in Afghanistan. Marine Sam Alexander, 28, from Plymouth, was killed on 27 May, along with his troop commander, Lt Ollie Augustin. His funeral is due to take place at the Minster Church of St Andrew's in Plymouth.
An 18-year-old computer hacker who stole songs from artists including Lady Gaga has been sentenced to 18 months detention in Germany. The court heard how the teenager, who called himself DJ Stolen, earned more than 15,000 euros (Â£13,260) by breaking copyright laws and hacking personal information from a number of singers. The hacker used phishing emails and Trojan horse software to steal unpublished songs and then offer them for sale on the internet. Anti-piracy teams in the UK and Germany noticed a growing number of pre-release tracks being leaked much earlier than normal. Tracks were stolen from Lady Gaga, Justin Timberlake, Leona Lewis, Ke$ha and Mariah Carey in 2009 and 2010. The teenager, referred to in court as 'Deniz A' because of his age, was also found guilty of downloading explicit private photos from Kesha's computer. The court in the German city of Duisburg also heard how a letter of apology was published in the Bild, a German tabloid newspaper, from the teenager. It said: "Dear Lady Gaga, I am ashamed of what I have done. I did not think about the consequences." The judge ruled that the teen was "driven more by a desire for recognition than by criminal intent". The 18-year-old was also ordered to have therapy for an addiction to the internet. Another hacker, 23, whose name wasn't released, was also given an 18 months suspended sentence. Jeremy Banks, from the International Federation of the Phonograhic Industry (IFPI), which helped with the investigation said the sentences acted as a "deterrent" to others. He said the crimes caused "huge damage to artists and record companies".
Vietnam and the United States have taken the first step towards cleaning up Agent Orange contamination. The US sprayed 12 million gallons of the defoliant over jungles between 1961 and 1971 during the Vietnam war. Vietnamese experts say more than three million people have suffered the effects of the herbicide, of which some 400,000 died. The development is being hailed as one of the most significant in relations between Washington and Hanoi. A ceremony to launch the programme was held at the Danang airport where the defoliant was stored before being sprayed over forests hiding fighters from the Viet Cong, guerrillas backed by the Communist government of North Vietnam. US-Vietnam ties have blossomed since diplomatic relations were established 16 years ago and steps to resolve issues left over from the war have formed a cornerstone of progress, say correspondents. "I think it's fair to say that dioxin contamination and Agent Orange was one of the single most neuralgic issues in the US-Vietnam relationship," said US charge d'affaires Virginia Palmer. For years, Hanoi and Washington argued about questions of compensation for victims of the defoliant. But now the US recognises that dioxin, found in Agent Orange, is a highly toxic substance. "Studies suggest that this chemical may be related to a number of cancers and other health effects in humans", says the US Department of Veterans Affairs. Five years ago the embassy began to shift the focus to cleaning up dioxin hot spots, clearing the path for swift progress on what had become the biggest remaining war-era issue. The US Congress appropriated an initial $3m (Â£1.8m) in 2007 for the effort and the figure has since risen to $32m.
A visitor centre which is thought to stand on the site of Owain Glyndwr's old parliament is reopening after a £350,000 revamp. The Owain Glyndwr Centre in Machynlleth, Powys, tells the story of the Welsh uprising from 1400, and first opened in 1981. A new exhibition about the 15th Century rebel prince is also being unveiled. Funding has come from the historic monuments agency Cadw. The centre, inside the Grade I-listed Parliament House, will be opened by Alun Davies, AM for Mid and West Wales and the Welsh Government's deputy minister for agriculture and European programmes. Parliament House was built in about 1460 and is understood to stand on the site of Glyndwr's parliament. The rebel leader was crowned as Prince of Wales at Machynlleth in 1404, and is regarded by many as one of the great heroes of Welsh history. On its website, the centre said "an exciting, new exhibition" was being launched at the newly renovated venue. It added: "This innovative and up-to-date exhibition, a complete redesign and updating of the previous exhibition, provides a colourful, informative - and sometimes intriguing - glimpse into the life and times of Owain Glyndwr, gentleman and soldier, lawyer turned rebel, national hero and self-proclaimed Prince of Wales." The exhibition includes a video telling the story of Glyndwr's Parliament of 1404, a replica broadsword, replica period costumes and banners. Money has paid for new a heating and lighting system, and for the restoration of a mural of Glyndwr leading his warriors into battle. A lime plaster ceiling has also been refurbished.
The Isle of Man government hopes to begin talks with Ireland about the possibility of Irish Sea wind farm links between the two nations. The initial negotiations are due to take place at a meeting of the British Irish Council on 20 June. Plans to extend the UK electricity grid out as far as Ireland are on the agenda at the diplomatic meeting in London. Chief Minister Tony Brown said if this happens the Isle of Man could be well placed to benefit. He said: "We are mid way between England and Ireland and therefore there is a potential renewable energy opportunity. "I think it is very early days yet but it will be interesting to hear what is being proposed and how we can be an active party in that." Tynwald has committed to having 15% of the island's electricity generated from renewable sources by 2015. But a plan for wind farms in the west of the island faced stiff opposition from residents. Mr Brown said if energy could be brought in from an Irish wind farm the island could avoid building turbines close to the Manx coast. "We are of course conscious that a wind farm could create renewable energy for the island but we are also aware of the impact that may have visually." The Isle of Man government is also hoping a planned wind farm development by Centrica will lead to further expansion of wind power. Energy minister John Shimmin has said the company's plans site turbines about 12 miles off the island in 2015 could facilitate a further Manx development in about 2018.
A residential hospital for vulnerable adults near Bristol where alleged abuse was secretly filmed by the BBC Panorama programme is to close on Friday. Castlebeck, which runs Winterbourne View, said the hospital would close on 24 June when the last patients would be transferred to alternative services. Patients at the unit were filmed by an undercover reporter posing as a care worker. The footage showed residents being pinned down, slapped and taunted. A spokesman for Castlebeck said the company had been working closely with families and carers, the NHS and social services "to ensure patients are safely transferred with minimum disruption to their lives". After the programme was broadcast Castlebeck apologised and launched an internal investigation. A number of people have been questioned by police and released on bail following the programme and the government said it would carry out its own review of what happened. A serious case review into the alleged abuse at the residential hospital has been set for July. Jack Lopresti, the local Conservative MP, said he had met Lee Reed, the chief executive of Castlebeck, earlier in the day. Mr Lopresti said: "Mr Reed gave me his assurances that the closure of the hospital will be conducted in as sensitive a way as possible. "I stand by my call for the hospital's closure and I am pleased that Castlebeck have come to the same conclusion. "Given the horrific events which have taken place at Winterbourne View I believe its future running is untenable."
More new mothers are opting to try breastfeeding their babies, latest UK figures reveal. The NHS Information Centre data shows more than eight out of 10 newborns are now breastfed at least once after birth, up from six out of 10 in 1990. Experts said the increase was welcome and partly due to public awareness that "breast is best" for mother and child. But the figures do not reveal how many mums stick at it for the recommended first six months of a baby's life. Many women struggle to continue to exclusively breastfeed. And the Royal College of Midwives is concerned that some new mothers are not getting the support they need to encourage breastfeeding. Spokeswoman Jane Munro criticised the Department of Health in England for axing funding for National Breastfeeding Awareness Week, which runs this week. "We do not want to see the ground we have gained lost." She added: "We know that many women stop breastfeeding when they leave hospital. "This is why it is so important that they are able to get advice and support from their midwife, and that there are enough midwives with the time to offer these women the help they need." The government said it was committed to training up to an extra 4,200 health visitors by 2015 who would "be able to help support women who want to breastfeed but may find it difficult". According to the latest figures, breastfeeding rates were higher in England than in Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales, although rates have risen in most areas. And the percentage of women who are choosing to smoke either before or during pregnancy has fallen.
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has been re-elected to serve a second five-year term, in a vote at the UN General Assembly in New York. Mr Ban, a former South Korean foreign minister, was the only candidate after the UN Security Council unanimously recommended his re-election. Critics say he is too deferential to major powers, but he has won praise for his policies on climate change and the protests sweeping the Middle East. He took over at the UN in 2007. His second term will formally begin on 1 January 2012 and run until the end of 2016. Mr Ban smiled and bowed to ambassadors and diplomats gathered at UN headquarters, who backed the reappointment through applause without a vote. "In a complex, difficult international environment, you have strengthened the role and the visibility of the United Nations by adopting reform measures, launching exciting, innovative initiatives, and calling faithfully and constantly for respect for human rights, the rule of law and the other values rooted in our charter," UN General Assembly President Joseph Deiss told him. When he announced his candidacy two weeks ago, Mr Ban pledged to keep leading the world body as a "bridge-builder" in a time of unprecedented global change. Correspondents say when Mr Ban was first elected, powerful nations in the Security Council seemed to want a low-profile leader after the schisms of the 2003 Iraq war. However, his low-key approach has sometimes been criticised. He came under heavy attack from human rights activists for failing to take a public stand on the jailing of Chinese Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo. More recently, he has spoken out in support of pro-democracy activists in the Middle East and North Africa. He has also taken a strong stand on climate change.
The notebooks of the Scottish folklore pioneer Alexander Carmichael have been prepared for publication. It will be the first time Carmichael's work has been available in its entirety. From 1860, he spent 50 years collecting legends, songs, curses and oral history from Gaelic-speakers. Researchers and archivists have worked for two years preparing the notes for publication by the University of Edinburgh. Carmichael's work has led to him being likened to the brothers Grimm in Germany. His volume Carmina Gadelica, published in 1900, is estimated to have included only a tenth of his original research material. Senior researcher Dr Donald William Stewart said: "Alexander Carmichael tirelessly, even obsessively, recorded the culture, lore and beliefs of his native Scottish highlands. "By the end of his life in 1912, he was both Celtic guru and folklore jukebox, the internationally-recognised authority on Scottish Gaelic songs, stories, traditions and beliefs. "Carmichael's voluminous papers, now preserved in Edinburgh University library, form one of the foremost folklore collections in the world." Carmichael carried out his research while working as a tax collector on Lewis, Argyll, Uist and the west highlands. Researchers said the transcription of his notes was hindered by his "notoriously bad handwriting". The work has been published online at the Carmichael Watson project website. An exhibition called Unlocking the Celtic Collector will run at Edinburgh University library until 22 July.
The Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama's new £22.5m Cardiff base opened with a tribute to Richard Burton. His daughter Kate was unveiling a bust of her father while actor Robert Hardy was reading a eulogy to the late Welsh-born Hollywood star. The development in the grounds of Cardiff Castle includes a 450-seat concert hall and a 160-seat theatre named in honour of Burton. There are a series of events at the complex over the next few days. They include a performance by 2005 Cardiff Singer of the World winner Andrew Kennedy and a special series of concerts by Welsh National Opera. Walk of Fame Kennedy's concert will officially open the 450-seat hall named after Dora Stoutzker who used to teach music in south Wales. Other facilities include studio, teaching, rehearsal and foyer spaces, an exhibition gallery to display the college's award-winning theatre and costume designs, and a new cafe bar and outdoor terrace overlooking Bute Park. Work on the development began in 2009. It was confirmed on Wednesday that Burton, a miner's son from Pontrhydyfen, near Port Talbot who died in 1984 aged 58, is to is to be recognised with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. His tempestuous love affair with Elizabeth Taylor, who died earlier this year, is also reported to be being made into a film directed by Martin Scorsese.
The hunt is on to try to find a successor to the late Paul the 'psychic' octopus. Paul captured global attention after he successfully predicted the results of all of Germany's seven games at the 2010 World Cup, as well as the final. Each time he opened a box marked with the winning country's flag and ate the mussel inside. There are now eight contenders in the race to become the next 'psychic' octopus for the Women's World Cup. One of the those in the running is Lola from France, aged around five months, who lives at the Sea Life Centre in Munich. Jens Bohn, who works at the aquarium, thinks she is in with a good chance, and he he told BBC World Service that Lola is both "intelligent" and a "quick learner". He has been training her in preparation for her first test on Friday, when she and the seven other octopuses will attempt to predict the winner of the opening game between Germany and Canada. But could there ever really be another Paul? "Perhaps we'll discover that Paul was the only one, the magic one, and the others are just normal octopuses," admits Bohn. "Nobody knows, but it's worth a try, isn't it?" Sixteen teams, including England, are taking part in the Women's World Cup in Germany, which runs from 26 June until 17 July.
Haringey Council and the Department for Education are to seek an appeal at the Supreme Court against a ruling that Sharon Shoesmith was unfairly sacked. In May, Court of Appeal judges said her dismissal by then children's secretary Ed Balls and her employers, Haringey Council, was "procedurally unfair". Ms Shoesmith was head of children's services when baby Peter Connelly was found dead with more than 50 injuries. He had been seen 60 times by authorities before his death in 2007. A year later, Ms Shoesmith learned of her sacking in a live televised press conference by Mr Balls, bringing her 35-year career to an abrupt end. Ms Shoesmith's appeal in May 2011 challenged a High Court ruling that cleared Mr Balls, the north London borough of Haringey and watchdog Ofsted of acting unlawfully. The Court of Appeal judges dismissed her appeal against Ofsted, but did rule that her dismissal by Haringey and Mr Balls three years ago had been "procedurally unfair". At the time, Mr Balls said he "strongly disagreed" with the judgement and added that his decision had been based on a report from independent inspectors. On Friday, a Haringey Council spokesman said: "The council believes it acted properly throughout the process and stands by everything it has done. "It is for these reasons we are seeking permission to appeal to the Supreme Court."
The Winklevoss brothers have re-started their long-running legal dispute with Facebook and its boss Mark Zuckerberg. Just days after dropping a supreme court action, the twins filed a fresh lawsuit against the company. It claims that Facebook "intentionally or inadvertently suppressed evidence" during their previous litigation. Originally, Tyler and Cameron accused Mr Zuckerberg of stealing their idea to create the site. The story of the feud formed the core of the 2010 film "The Social Network". The row dates from 2003 when the Winklevosses hired Mr Zuckerberg to write code for their ConnectU site while at Harvard. He never did, but instead set up Facebook, which quickly became a success around the world. A court case over who did what was resolved in 2008 when the parties agreed on a financial settlement, reportedly worth around $65m (Â£41m). In January 2011 the Winklevosses tried to reopen the case, seeking more money. However, a US appeals court ruled in April that they would have to accept the settlement. The twins initially said they would appeal against the settlement, but decided this week not to pursue that legal avenue. In the most recent suit filed on Thursday with the US District Court of Massachusetts, the Winklevosses and their business partner Divya Narendra said that Facebook hid some crucial information from them during settlement proceedings. The twins said that Mr Zuckerberg did not disclose some important documents in regards to the relationship between him and the brothers while they were at Harvard. Facebook's outside counsel Neel Chatterjee said in a statement: "These are old and baseless allegations that have been considered and rejected previously by the courts."
Mauritanian and Malian soldiers have raided an al-Qaeda camp in western Mali, defence sources said. A Malian security source said there had been "fierce fighting" at the base in the Wagadou forest region on Friday, including the use of heavy weapons. Wagadou, near Mauritania's border, is an area where al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) are known to operate. Earlier this month, Mali and Mauritania agreed to lead a joint operation to tackle the al-Qaeda offshoot. The attack took place at about 1745 local time (1745 GMT) on Friday and involved air strikes, according to a Mauritanian source cited by AFP news agency. The source said the "terrorists" had struck back with "heavy weapons". "The definitive toll on the enemy side will only be known at dawn but it will be heavy. The tents of the camp and three vehicles have been destroyed," the source said. "We are in control of the situation and the zone has been secured." The Malian source said helicopters from Mali had been used to evacuate the wounded from the area. Regional governments has been on high alert since the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan in May, amid concern that affiliated groups might plot a revenge attack. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) has staged attacks and kidnapped Europeans in the region. It emerged from Islamist groups fighting in Algeria in the 1990s.
An Israeli couple have been given suspended jail sentences in Poland for the theft of artefacts from the Nazi death camp Auschwitz, officials say. The nine items, including spoons and a pair of scissors, were found in their luggage during a routine check as they prepared to board a flight to Israel. The couple admitted taking the items during a tour of the former concentration camp, now a museum. They are expected to pay a contribution towards the preservation of the site. More than a million people - most of them Jews - were murdered by the Nazis at Auschwitz during World War II. The 60-year-old man and 57-year-old woman - whose names have not been released - were detained at Krakow airport in southern Poland on Friday as they prepared to board a return flight to Israel, officials said. The couple told Polish police they had found the items at the Auschwitz-Birkenau memorial site, officials said. Police took them back there and the couple indicated an area where the Nazis used to keep prisoners' belongings, the chief spokesman for the memorial, Jaroslaw Mensfelt, told AP news agency. "We can safely assume that the objects they stole were original, from that time," Mr Mensfelt was quoted as saying. The couple were then charged with stealing culturally important items - an offence that carries a maximum 10-year jail sentence. "They have voluntarily accepted a two-year suspended jail sentence and agreed to pay a mandatory contribution towards the preservation of monuments," Deputy District Prosecutor Mariusz Slomka was quoted as saying by Reuters news agency. He did not specify the amount of the contribution. The couple will be allowed to return to Israel once the formalities are dealt with, added the deputy district prosecutor.
Police have clashed with demonstrators in the Italian Alps over the construction of a new high-speed rail link with France. Tunnelling is set to start for a line from Turin to Lyon, which is expected to cut the travel time by nearly half. Local residents built barricades to prevent heavy machinery from starting work in the picturesque Val di Susa, in northern Italy. Police used fire hoses and tear gas to disperse them. Police had to escort the contractor's bulldozers to the high Alpine site where work is due to begin. Demonstrators set on fire barricades erected to keep out intruders, but failed to halt the works. Despite environmental objections, the Italian government is determined to go ahead with the project, which is heavily backed by EU money and is estimated to cost 15bn euros (Â£13bn). Work is due to start by 30 June or the country risks losing the hundreds of million euros the EU is contributing, a minister said at the weekend. Earlier, more than 3,000 people took part in a peaceful, overnight candle-lit prayer vigil against the project. "The majority of residents of the valley are against this project which damages the environment and is an absurdity for public finances," said Paolo Ferrero, secretary of Italy's Communist Refoundation Party. Residents fear that, despite safeguards built into the multi-billion euro project in a deal signed in 2001, an area of outstanding natural beauty is going to be spoilt. Other protests have been announced on the internet, with a demonstration due in Rome on Tuesday, reports say.
A former senior Russian intelligence officer, Alexander Poteyev, has been found guilty of betraying the names of ten Russian sleeper agents. A Moscow court convicted Mr Poteyev in absentia of treason and desertion, sentencing him to 25 years in jail. He left Russia shortly before the sleeper agents were arrested a year ago and he is now believed to be in the United States. The agents were expelled from the US last year. The military court said Poteyev had overseen the Russian agents in the US as a deputy head of the "S" department of Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service. Vladimir Kharitonov, the prosecutor in the case, said he was satisfied with the verdict. "By the court's ruling he is stripped of his military rank and all state decorations." The 10 sleeper agents were expelled by the US last July and exchanged for four Russians who allegedly spied for the West. It was the biggest spy swap since the Cold War. On their return, the Russian sleepers were met by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, and given Russia's top honours by President Dmitry Medvedev. They included Anna Chapman, who has since become a media sensation in Russia, hosting her own television show. Ms Chapman testified that she was caught after an undercover American agent contacted her using a code that only Poteyev and her personal handler knew. She said she immediately felt that something was wrong and called her handler in Moscow who confirmed her suspicions. Ms Chapman and the others were arrested shortly afterwards.
Hundreds more Britons went to fight fascism in the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s than had previously been thought, newly released files show. MI5 recorded the names of about 4,000 people from Britain and Ireland suspected of travelling to join the war, National Archives files show. The previous estimate stood at about 2,500. Many volunteers were communists and of interest to MI5. One name on the list is Eric Blair, better known as author George Orwell. His experiences in the Spanish Civil War were documented in his book Homage to Catalonia. The details of those who had joined the fight against General Franco's forces between 1936 and 1939 continued to be updated by security service MI5 up until the mid-1950s. The record for Orwell covers the period in which he published the bestselling novels Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four, until his death in January 1950. The files, which can be downloaded free for a month, comprise more than 200 pages detailing the movements of the men and women who left British ports for the Spanish front line - as well as a "roll of honour" of some of those killed in action. James Cronan, the National Archives' diplomatic and colonial records specialist, said it was not clear how many of those who left actually reached Spain, but he added that "we know that hundreds never returned". "The International Brigades and associated militia brought volunteers together from all over the world in defence of democracy but few, if any, records exist of their service," he said. "That's why uncovering a document like this is so exciting." This year marks the 75th anniversary of the start of the war in July 1936.
Sunderland have signed Craig Gardner from Birmingham City for an undisclosed fee believed to be about £6m. The midfielder, 24, has penned a three-year deal at the Stadium of Light. He was Blues' top scorer last season with 10 goals in all competitions, and helped the side win the Carling Cup in February before they were relegated to the Championship in May. Gardner has joined Ji Dong-won, Connor Wickham, Seb Larsson and Keiren Westwood in moving to Wearside. Gardner told SAFC TV: "It's unbelievable, to be honest. As soon as I found out Sunderland were interested, it was a no-brainer. "Obviously, I have heard so much about [manager] Steve Bruce and his backroom staff and how good a chairman Niall Quinn is. "It's such a massive club and their ambitions for this season meet my ambitions, and it was too good to turn down." South Korea striker Dong-won completed his transfer from Chunnam Dragons to Sunderland for an undisclosed fee just hours before Gardner sealed his move on Thursday. Dong-won, 20, is the second striker to join the Black Cats in as many days following 18-year-old Wickham's £8.1m switch from Championship outfit Ipswich. Sunderland boss Steve Bruce signed goalkeeper Westwood and winger Larsson from Coventry and Birmingham respectively on free transfers. Gardner believes the signings demonstrate the club's desire for success. "It means that the club wants to go places," he added. "Obviously, we want to finish as high up the table as we can. We want to be in Europe next year and it's a great task to go and chase. "It's a good goal for us. We can go and do it, and I am sure we will."
A Wiltshire village is being mistaken for one of the UK's largest US airbases on in-car satnav systems. US service personnel are being directed to Mildenhall, near Marlborough, instead of RAF Mildenhall in Suffolk. Tony Fishlock, a local resident, said: "They arrive, pick up their hire car, punch the destination Mildenhall into their satnav and away they go. "Arriving they are puzzled to see no KC 135s circling nor any sign of one of the largest air bases in Europe." RAF Mildenhall, in Suffolk, is one of the largest US airbases in the UK.  It is home to several airborne units and supports 16,000 personnel Mildenhall, Wiltshire, is a village of thatched cottages with a population of 457 in the 2001 census.  The name is pronounced "Minal". John Desmond, the landlord of the Horseshoe Inn, said: "It's been going on for years. "It's mainly American airforce personnel that end up in the village asking, 'Where's the airbase?' but we also get German lorry drivers and French lorry drivers. "They're gobsmacked when they find out that the base is 180 miles away in Suffolk." Despite reports that a USAF navigator, major and fighter pilot are among those who have ended up in the village, the RAF base says it has no records of "lost personnel". "I can't imagine it happens too often," said Capt Lindsey Hahn. "But then again any newcomers being briefed on arrival might not admit to getting lost."
"Nice guy" actor Paul Nicholas has been lined up to play the baddie in this year's Christmas pantomime in Derby. The 65-year-old, who starred as charmer Vince in 80s sitcom Just Good Friends, will play King Rat in Dick Whittington at the Assembly Rooms. Nicholas takes up the mantle from Neil Morrissey, who has appeared in Derby's pantomime for the past two years. Joining him in the show will be former Big Breakfast and This Morning presenter Mike McLean. Nicholas's 50-year career has seen him appear in film and stage roles including Tommy, Lisztomania and the lead role in Jesus Christ Superstar. He also had two top 10 hits in 1976 with Grandma's Party and Dancing with the Captain. More recently he took part in ITV reality programme Grease is The Word and has started a franchise of acting schools for young people. He said: "I'm looking forward to coming to Derby and winding pantomime audiences up with my King Rat. "It's great for me to play the villain as I've spent most of my career being cast as the good guy, although I promise I'll be good by the end of the story." Dick Whittington and his Cat will run at the Assembly Rooms from 7 December to 8 January.
Cameroon has banned all night-time public transport on roads to curb accidents caused by heavy drinking, the transport ministry says. About 1,250 people died in road accidents last year, the ministry said. The decision has been strongly criticised by many Cameroonians, who say it will affect their businesses and nightlife. The ban means that buses and taxis must be off roads from 2000 GMT to 0400 GMT. The ministry said night travel accounted for 35% of accidents, even though few people commuted at night. The accidents were caused mainly by heavy drinking, it said. About 12,000 people died last year in road accidents in Cameroon and another 12,000 were wounded, the ministry said. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah in the capital, Yaounde, says that while many people welcome moves to reduce fatalities, they believe poor roads are the main cause of accidents. Only about 20% of Cameroon's roads are tarred, he says. Many people are not sure how they will travel to and from work because some journeys last more than six hours, our reporter says. Police have been ordered to pull off buses and taxis that travel after 2000 GMT, raising the prospect of commuters sleeping on the roadside or walking home, he says. The ban has also been condemned by owners of bars and night clubs, who believe that it will ruin their businesses and destroy nightlife in big cities. Small-scale traders said their income would be badly affected because their produce would not reach markets early in the morning. "I'm finished. This is bad for me and my children," a vegetable hawker, Grace Teboh, was quoted by the AFP news agency as saying.
Nail bomber David Copeland has failed in his bid to reduce his minimum jail term of 50 years. Copeland was given six life sentences in June 2000 for three counts of murder and three counts of causing explosions in London in order to endanger life. Copeland, 35, from Hampshire, admitted killing three and injuring 139 people. Under new legislation, a High Court judge set a minimum term of 50 years and the Court of Appeal upheld that sentence on Tuesday. The original recommendation in his case was that he should serve a minimum of 30 years before he can be considered for parole. But High Court judge Mr Justice Burton later described it as a "really exceptional case of deliberate, multiple murder". During 13 days in April 1999 Copeland caused explosions in Brixton, south London Brick Lane in east London and Soho, central London. The final blast at the gay pub the Admiral Duncan killed Andrea Dykes, 27, who was pregnant, and friends John Light, 32, and Nik Moore, 31, from Essex. Copeland intended his bombing campaign to ignite a race war across Britain, his trial heard. He was tried at the Old Bailey in 2000 for murder after the prosecution refused to accept his plea of guilty to manslaughter on the grounds that he was suffering a mental illness - paranoid schizophrenia. A Broadmoor Hospital consultant had described him as psychotic and diagnosed schizophrenia. The original trial judge, Michael Hyam, concluded that Copeland's crimes were motivated by his hatred of black and Asian people and homosexuals.
President: Muhammadu Buhari Muhammadu Buhari swept to a historic election victory in March 2015, becoming the first opposition candidate to win a Nigerian presidential poll. A former military ruler, Mr Buhari defeated incumbent Goodluck Jonathan by three million votes. Mr Jonathan's People's Democratic Party had dominated Nigerian politics since the end of military rule in 1999, but its supremacy was shaken by the formation of the Mr Buhari's All Progressives Congress party in 2013. The APC in particular capitalised on Mr Jonathan's failure to deal with endemic corruption and the Boko Haram Islamist insurgency gripping northern Nigeria. A Muslim Fulani from northern Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari in 1983 helped to oust elected President Shehu Shagari to become the first head of Nigeria's second period of military rule, lasting until 1999. His regime sought to combat crime and corruption, but was also accused of serious rights abuses. In 1985, he was himself overthrown by Gen Ibrahim Babangida. Since the restoration of democracy in 1999, Mr Buhari stood three times for the presidency before winning in 2015. He has distanced himself from military rule, promising to respect democracy and govern as a civilian leader. He scored a major diplomatic success in June 2015 when neighbouring countries agreed to Nigeria commanding a joint force to counter Boko Haram, rather than rotating the command among themselves. He has enjoyed less success in restoring Nigeria's economic fortunes, which have suffered from low world oil prices, and allowed the naira currency to float in mid-2016 in an attempt to tackle inflation and boost investment.
Nigeria's media scene is one of the most vibrant in Africa. State radio and TV have near-national coverage and operate at federal and regional levels. All 36 states run at least one radio network and a TV station. There are hundreds of radio stations and terrestrial TV networks, as well as cable and direct-to-home satellite offerings. Radio is a key source of information. International broadcasters, including the BBC, are popular. However, rebroadcasts of foreign radios are banned. Television viewing is concentrated in urban areas. Legislation limits the amount of foreign programming that stations can show, and outlets cannot air foreign news. The state TV says it reaches more than 90 million viewers. However, privately-owned Galaxy TV, Silver Bird TV and AIT are the market leaders in some cities. There are more than 100 national and local press titles, some of them state-owned. They include well-respected dailies, tabloids and publications which champion ethnic interests. The lively private press often criticises the government. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) ranked Nigeria 111th out of 180 countries in its 2015 world press freedom index. Freedom House NGO says the authorities "regularly harass, intimidate, and attack journalists in the field". Boko Haram, a militant Islamist group, has threatened the media. In April 2012, it bombed newspaper offices in Abuja and Kaduna. By 2014, 67 million Nigerians were online (Internetlivestats.com). Mobile phones are commonly used to access the web. Most internet users are young, educated and urban. Facebook is the most popular social media platform; by June 2015 at least 7.1 million people were using Facebook daily. BBC Hausa's Facebook page is a popular destination.
Egyptian police have clashed with hundreds of anti-government protesters in Cairo's Tahrir Square, leaving several people injured. Riot police fired tear gas to try to disperse the protesters, many of whom hurled stones at the police lines. Tahrir Square was the epicentre of February's revolt that led to President Hosni Mubarak being toppled. Many of the protesters were calling for the prosecution of former officials to be speeded up. As dawn broke, stones and broken glass littered the streets around Tahrir Square. Witnesses said it was worst violence in the square for weeks. The confrontation started on Tuesday when police cleared a sit-in outside the state TV building by families of those killed in February's uprising, activists said. The protesters later regrouped outside the interior ministry and clashes broke out with police. Fighting escalated and moved to Tahrir Square where lines of riot police carrying shields sealed off the main streets and dozens of security vehicles parked in side streets. As volleys of tear gas rained down, injured demonstrators were seen lying on the ground, some dazed and bloodied. "The people want the fall of the regime," some of the demonstrators chanted. Ahmed Abdel Hamid, 26, who was among the protesters, said people were angry that court cases against senior officials were being delayed. Last week, Egypt's former Trade Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid was sentenced to five years in prison in absentia for embezzling public funds. Earlier this month, former Egyptian Finance Minister Yussef Boutros Ghali was sentenced to 30 years in prison in absentia, also on corruption charges. Former President Mubarak, in custody at a military hospital, is due to go on trial on 3 August alongside his sons, Alaa and Gamal. Mr Mubarak is charged with the deaths of protesters during Egypt's uprising.
Community land ownership is playing a successful role in encouraging people to live in remote and rural areas, according to a new report. Scottish Agricultural College (SAC) researcher Dr Sarah Skerratt travelled across north and west Scotland in a mobile home to gather evidence. She had hoped to visit 17 communities, but bad weather prevented her from reaching the island of Eigg. Dr Skerratt's report will be made available to MSPs. Her journey by road and ferry took in community land trusts in Assynt, Lewis, Harris, South Uist, Skye, Knoydart, Rum, Mull and Gigha. Populations on the community owned lands ranged from 23 people to 11,000. According to SAC, land trusts in Scotland own just under 500,000 acres (202,342 hectares) of land in total. Dr Skerratt  said: "It is evident that community land ownership is one clear way of achieving a more vibrant rural Scotland. "While communities may not all have the range of skills and capacity needed for the task of purchasing and developing their land, they are overcoming the challenges by 'importing' training, guidance and support to complement what they have locally." David Cameron, chairman of Community Land Scotland, said more communities should consider community land ownership. He said: "On the basis of the evidence provided in the report, I am confident that it will encourage other communities to consider whether landownership could be an option for them. "This applies not only to areas in the Highlands and Islands - I believe that there are absolutely no barriers to it happening right across Scotland wherever there are willing communities." Duns-based landscape photo-artist Iain White was commissioned to take photographs during her travels in May this year.
Police are sending letters to 37,000 homes in West Yorkshire from this week in a bid to find the mother of a baby who was found dead at a waste site. The letters are going to addresses whose waste is sent to Associated Waste Management in Shipley where the baby girl's body was found on 19 May. The site received 97 loads of waste the day before, 51 from Bradford and the rest from elsewhere in the county. Police hope an appeal by letter may jog the memory of a potential witness. The deliveries will be made to addresses in more than 2,000 post code areas, while a second letter will be sent to businesses to appeal to staff for information about the case. Inquiries have so far revealed the baby was a newly-born white girl who died two or three days before her body was discovered by staff at the Valley Road site. A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said: "It is also believed the baby did not have a hospital birth and locating the mother to make sure she is safe and well remains a priority for officers." A team of detectives continues to work on the investigation and police have also been carrying out forensic work to examine other possible ways to identify the baby girl. Det Supt Sukhbir Singh, who is leading the investigation, said: "The answer to finding the mother of this child continues to lie within the communities of West Yorkshire and we are carrying out this new information seek to see if we can uncover new information to help us find her. "Any case which involves the death of a baby is harrowing and we are determined to explore all avenues to both identify this baby girl and locate her family."
One of the world's largest online poker sites has been suspended. Full Tilt Poker, an American-run site registered on the Channel Island of Alderney, has been closed down by the authorities there. A US investigation into money laundering, illegal gambling and bank fraud was launched back in April. Eleven people, among them the founders of Full Tilt Poker, were charged over the offences. In 2006, American authorities tried to crack down on the practice. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act was legislation introduced to try to put the brakes on the emerging industry. It was designed to halt money transfers to online gaming sites. As a result several big poker sites worried about the new law pulled out of America. For example, PokerStars is based on the Isle of Man, Absolute Poker is in Canada with Full Tilt in Alderney. Now, the commission there has said an internal investigation showed that Full Tilt employees and associates have operated contrary to its gambling laws with a hearing due in London on 26 July. "The decision to suspend the eGambling License was in the public interest," said Andre Wilsenach, the commission's executive director. "Because of the seriousness and urgency of the matter, it required that immediate action was taken ahead of the regulatory hearing." There's been no comment so far from Full Tilt Poker.
It is quite possible diners used to Dublin's city centre restaurants have been waiting for Friday, in the hope of paying a little less. From the first day of July the VAT rate in restaurants, hotels and other tourist venues in the Republic of Ireland will drop to nine per cent. Paul Cadden of the Restaurants Association of Ireland said it would be a big help to a struggling industry. It will not mean more money for the restaurant owners, but will mean slightly lower prices, and ought to encourage more paying customers in through the door. Meanwhile Bob McCoubrey is greeting his lunchtime diners at his restaurant on Belfast. The VAT rate in the UK is 20%,  and restaurant owners like him in Northern Ireland are looking jealously southwards. "It gives them a huge advantage," Mr McCoubrey said. "We need a similar reduction not just to help restaurant owners, but also our struggling tourist industry." The Northern Ireland Hotels Federation is worried too. It points out that comparable VAT rates in France and Spain are at just 5% and 8% respectively, meaning businesses in Northern Ireland cannot compete. Now their nearest competitors - hotels in the Irish Republic - are charging only 9%, the situation seems even worse. The UK Treasury is understood to be looking at VAT rates.
A 13-year-old boy has drowned in a quarry in Lancashire. Dylan Ramsay was swimming at Hill Top Quarry in Whittle-le-Woods, near Chorley, on Sunday. Emergency crews were called to the site shortly after 1500 BST but Dylan was pronounced dead at the scene, a police spokesman said. Dylan's mother, Rebecca Ramsay, paid tribute to her son who she described as a "bright young man who enjoyed life to the maximum and was a thrill seeker". "He was funny, special and a talented athlete," she said. "He was loved by all his family and friends and was a brilliant big brother to his brothers and sister and a fantastic son." She said the family had been left "totally devastated". "It has left a massive hole in our lives and our family is incomplete without him, though he will never be forgotten. Life will never be the same." Ms Ramsay urged people to learn the message of her son's death. "As Dylan's mum, I want people to know that Dylan was a strong lad and a very capable swimmer, despite this he still found himself in trouble and unable to swim a short distance to safety. "This message is to highlight the dangers of open water and the devastation it can bring to any normal family." Flowers and tributes to the Parklands High School pupil have been left by the gates surrounding the quarry. Councillor Eric Bell, of Chorley Council, said the local areas of open water had always been popular with young people. "We are surrounded by water and the water is a big attraction to kids when it is nice weather," he said. "This is used quite a lot and has been for many years."
A British soldier has gone missing in southern Afghanistan, the Ministry of Defence has confirmed. A massive search involving aircraft and ground troops has been launched after he went missing from his base in central Helmand. He had left the base alone in the early hours of Monday morning, a move which is described as "highly unusual". The soldier's next of kin have been informed. The Taliban has told the BBC it has killed a soldier in the area. The BBC's Quentin Sommerville in Kabul said a local Taliban fighter told the BBC that insurgents had captured a foreign soldier in the Babaji area and after a firefight the solider was killed. But our correspondent said the Taliban often made exaggerated claims for propaganda reasons. The international mission in Afghanistan, Isaf, denied that any gun battle took place. It said it was attempting to find the missing soldier as quickly as possible. The MoD said in a statement: "A British serviceman is missing in Afghanistan. An extensive operation to locate him is under way." Prime Minister David Cameron said it was "a very disturbing incident" as he made an unannounced visit to the country. Defence Secretary Liam Fox said: "The United Kingdom and Isaf are taking all necessary and appropriate action." Dr Fox also called for restraint by MPs and the media on the case, saying speculation was unhelpful. A US soldier is believed to be in Taliban captivity in Pakistan. Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, 25, from Hailey, Idaho, was captured in June 2009 in Paktika province in eastern Afghanistan.
Scientists in Australia have found the skeleton of a "giant wombat" which lived some two million years ago. The plant-eating marsupial would have been the size of a four-wheel drive car and weighed three tonnes, experts say. Its bones were found on a farm in north-eastern Australia's Queensland state. The find is one of Australia's most significant pre-historic discoveries ever because the skeleton is complete, experts say. It is the first time a complete skeleton of a Diprotodon optatum has been uncovered. The animal was widespread across Australia about 50,000 years ago, when it is believed the first indigenous people lived. Prof Mike Archer, a professor of biological science at the University of New South Wales, described the discovery as extraordinary. "We found the most gigantic marsupial ever known," he told the BBC. "These were very huge animals but with pouches. If one tried to visualise what this thing looked like, you'd have to sort of think of a gigantic wombat on steroids." The remains were unearthed at Floraville Station in northern Queensland - a region that has attracted scientists and fossil hunters for decades. Researchers believe the area could contain a huge graveyard of mega-fauna that once roamed the Australian continent. Every discovery offers more clues as to how and why they became extinct, possibly owing to hunting by humans or more likely because of a changing climate. The specimen will be taken to the Riversleigh Fossil Centre, a World Heritage site in Queensland. It is home to an array of prehistoric treasures, including the remains of a tree-dwelling crocodile, a carnivorous rat kangaroo and a marsupial lion.
A 50-acre lake at Llanfaelog on Anglesey has been given the unusual status of a 'village green'. Llanfaelog Community Council said it believed Llyn Maelog near Rhosneigr was the first lake to attain the status. Anglesey Council's legal experts decided there was no legal problem with the new designation at the lake, which is already a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). County councillors backed the move in a meeting on Wednesday. Richard Dew, the community council clerk, said it had taken a number of years to reach this stage. "It goes back a few years when the council looked at improving facilities, for locals and visitors, popular for sailing, boating, fishing as well as wildlife," he said. "We found there was no registered owner, so the way forward was to register it as a village green." Mr Dew said he understood that Llyn Maelog was the first lake in Wales to attain village green status. "But it is a very important lake, it has triple SI status, and we are  aware of the importance from a wildlife view as well," he added. Last year, Sherwood Lake in Tunbridge Wells, Kent was registered as a village green. Kate Ashbrook, general secretary of the open spaces society said: "Green spaces and open water are of immense importance to the public, as places of recreation and refreshment, where we can enjoy nature in peace and quiet."
The mother of two Nottinghamshire swimmers has said how proud she is after they took gold and silver at the Paralympic European Championships, in Berlin. Helen Hynd watched sons Sam (20) and Oliver (16) come first and second in the men's 400m freestyle on Tuesday. She said it was "nerve wracking" and wished it could have been a dead heat. Both swimmers have neuromuscular myopathy, a condition which weakens their legs. Sam Hynd is the British and World champion over 400m freestyle but the European Championships was Oliver's first international competition. Oliver also won a bronze for the 100m backstroke on Sunday. "If they could have both won that would have been fantastic," said Mrs Hynd. "I was well behind both of them." Mrs Hynd revealed that Sam was involved in a "horrific car crash" a year ago which prevented him from training for several months. "Credit is due to Sam," said Mrs Hynd. "He's getting himself back there and there's more to come from him." The brothers' condition affects their walking, meaning they rely on upper body strength in the water. Sam was diagnosed in 2007 and Oliver in 2009. "They're not letting it stop them," said Mrs Hynd. "He didn't have me worried," said Sam, who finished three seconds ahead of his brother. "I knew he'd always be there for the whole of the race. "I'm chuffed to win and for [Oliver] to get second as well. It's a really good achievement for his first international." The brothers will go head-to-head again on Saturday in the 200m individual medley.
A decorative gold item believed to be about 1,200 years old has been found at a Northumberland archaeological dig. It was found at Bamburgh Castle and project director, Graeme Young, said it could date back to around 800AD. The 1.4cm (0.5 inch) piece of gold has yet to be properly identified or valued, but will go on show at the castle later this year. Chris Calvert, director at Bamburgh Castle, said: "It's the largest piece of gold we've found so far." A group of 20 French and British students have been excavating Bamburgh Castle's west ward as part of a project that has been going on for about 10 years. French student Constance Durgeat found the piece while sifting through oyster and mussel shell mixed with silt. The unidentified piece has tiny beads of gold and spiral patterns. Mr Young said: "In its day, it was probably worth the income of two or three peasants for a year, quite easily. "It's way beyond the pocket of your average citizen in the kind of period. "It's the biggest and one of the best decorated pieces we've found at Bamburgh. "I think everyone was absolutely over the moon, the students were all very excited. "You're looking at something that is very high status. The workmanship alone is just astonishing and you need a microscope to see the full benefit." The last piece of gold found at Bamburgh was a small plaque in 2008.
A court in Colombia has sentenced eight soldiers to 60 years each in jail for killing four farmers and then claiming the men were left-wing guerrillas. It is the latest prosecution in the so-called "false-positive" scandal that first erupted in 2008. Security forces are believed to have killed thousands of civilians and passed them off as guerrillas in order to falsely inflate their success rates. They used these tallies to claim promotion and perks such as days off. The specific events happened in 2006 in the area of Yarumal, in the province of Antioquia. The soldiers claimed the victims - Enrique Piedrahita, John Edison Galeano, Jesus Alberto Londono and Juan Dario Arroyave - were guerrillas killed in combat. In a statement, Colombia's Public Prosecutor's office said the prosecutor had proved beyond reasonable doubt that "the victims were taken from their houses by force, there was no fighting, and that the men were farmers who were shot in the back". The convicted soldiers included one officer, Luis Gabriel Rueda Acevedo. The "false positive" scandal first hit the headlines under former President Alvaro Uribe. There have been a number of high-profile resignations and prosecutions since. But hundreds more cases are still being investigated.
Sylvie Guillem's latest appearance on the London stage has been applauded by the critics, one of whom said the 46-year-old was "still one of the most astonishing dancers on stage today". "The intelligence of her dancing burns even brighter," wrote the Guardian's Judith Mackrell in a four-star review. "The flair and virtuosity of her dancing stops you in your tracks," agreed the Standard's Sarah Frater. The French star is appearing in 6000 Miles Away at London's Sadler's Wells. Running until 9 July, the evening sees her perform a duet with Nicolas Le Riche, before dancing solo in a piece choreographed by Sweden's Mats Ek. According to the Arts desk, the result proved her to be "as swift as mercury, as exact as a feather, as light as the sun and as eternal in intelligent beauty as Nefertiti". "This great ballerina of our era is both inexplicable and unbelievable, in physique and in temperament," continued Ismene Brown. Formerly with the Paris Opera Ballet and the Royal Ballet in London, Guillem now devotes her energies to contemporary dance. The title of her show refers to Japan, with proceeds from Thursday's performance going to the Japan Tsunami Appeal managed by the British Red Cross.
Astronauts who flew on space shuttle Discovery's last flight have boarded Captain Scott's Antarctic exploration vessel during a visit to Dundee. Lord Provost John Letford welcomed the Nasa crew to the research ship RRS Discovery. Discovery was launched in the city in 1901 for Captain Robert Falcon Scott's first Antarctic journey. The crew's visit to Dundee comes months after they returned from the modern Discovery's final mission to space. Atlantis lifted off from Cape Canaveral in Florida at 1630 BST on Friday for the last ever flight of the shuttle programme. Dundee City Council said the Discovery astronauts - Michael Barratt, Eric Boe, Benjamin Drew and Nicole Stott - were shown how the RSS Discovery helped expand the boundaries of knowledge in the early 20th Century. The Lord Provost said: "The city of Dundee enjoys close links with Nasa and our ties have been strengthened through our mutual interest in RRS Discovery and admiration for Captain Scott and his crew. "I am very proud to be with these modern explorers as they see for themselves the ship that helped shape a greater understanding of our world. "This is a memorable day for Dundee as we invite the astronauts to share in our history and see how we are using it to inspire our future." The Discovery crew also presided over a "rocket launch" at Abertay University's Tayside Space School. The water rockets were launched by local primary school children.
Motorbikes have been banned from the northern Nigerian city of Maiduguri to prevent drive-by attacks by the radical Islamist sect, Boko Haram. Officials said no-one would be able to ride motorbikes at any time in the city, Boko Haram's stronghold. The group's trademark has been to use gunmen on motorbikes to assassinate security officers and politicians. Boko Haram is fighting for Islamic rule and has rejected talks with the government. At least 40 people have been killed in Maiduguri, the main city in Borno state, in the past two weeks in attacks blamed on the group. Last month, the group said it had carried out an attack on the headquarters of the Nigerian police in the capital, Abuja, which killed at least six people. The Borno state government said it was now imposing a 24-hour ban on motorbikes in the city. "The ban includes private as well as commercial motorcycles of all categories that operate within Maiduguri metropolis," Usman Ciroma, spokesman for the Borno state governor, said in a statement. Correspondents say motorbikes are one of the most common forms of transport in Maiduguri, as most people cannot afford cars. The AFP news agency reports that the governor, Kashim Shettima, warned that the ban could be extended. "If the security situation does not improve following this ban, the government will extend the ban to cover the whole state," he was quoted as saying. On Wednesday, Boko Haram fighters threw an explosive device at a military patrol in Maiduguri, wounding three officers.
England defender Casey Stoney has hit back at coach Hope Powell after she accused some players of "cowardice" ahead of the Women's World Cup quarter-final penalty shootout against France. Powell said she had to ask three times for volunteers to take the spot-kicks. England eventually lost 4-3 in the shootout after the match ended 1-1. "I don't think anyone's a coward and that's not the impression I got from Hope when she debriefed us after the game," Stoney told BBC Radio 5 live. "She said she was very proud and we should hold our heads up high." Injured striker Kelly Smith and forward Karen Carney were the only non-defenders to take penalties. You've got to want to take a penalty, but other players should have come forward and they didn't. That's weak, it's cowardice They both scored, with 29-year-old Stoney tucking the third penalty away before Claire Rafferty and skipper Faye White missed the last two kicks to send England home. Rafferty, 21, only came onto the pitch nine minutes before the end of normal time for her World Cup debut. Powell said on Saturday: "Faye said 'Right, if no-one else wants to do it I will do it'." The missed kick may have been the 33-year-old's last act in an England shirt. "Three times I had to ask [for volunteers] before anyone stepped forward," added Powell. "'Where are you?' I was thinking, and then a young kid is the first to put her hand up. And Kelly Smith was dying on her feet but she stepped up and took one. "You've got to want to take a penalty, but other players should have come forward and they didn't. That's weak, it's cowardice."
Somalia's disintegration is reflected in its fragmented and partisan media. The media operate in a hostile environment. Somalia is one of the most dangerous countries in the world to be a journalist, says US-based Human Rights Watch. The US-based Committee to Protect Journalists includes Somalia in its index of countries where the murders of journalists go unpunished. "Elusive armed insurgent groups have terrorised the media beyond the reach of Somalia's fragile law," it says. Journalists and media outlets complain about intimidation at the hands of state security agencies. Nevertheless, professionally-run media outlets have emerged - in particular, FM radios with no explicit factional links. The TV and press sectors are weak and radio is the dominant medium. There are around 20 radio stations, but no national, domestic broadcaster. Many listeners tune to Somali-language media based abroad, in particular the BBC Somali service. The  BBC transmits on shortwave and on FM in Mogadishu (91.1), the Somaliland capital Hargeisa (89.0), and elsewhere. Somali satellite channels are a significant part of the TV scene. Most of these are based in the UK. Somalis abroad maintain an active online presence. But domestic web access is held back by poor infrastructure. There are more than 163,000 internet users (Internetlivestats.com, September 2014), representing 1.5 per cent of the population. Social media use is on the rise. The most popular destinations are Twitter and Facebook. Islamists use social media to promote their aims while their opponents mount strong rebuttals. In secessionist Somaliland and Puntland the authorities maintain a tight hold on broadcasting.
South Africa is the continent's major media player, and its broadcasters and press reflect the diversity of its people. Established state-run and commercial TV broadcast nationally, and hundreds of thousands of viewers subscribe to satellite and cable. South Africa-based MultiChoice markets satellite pay-TV in dozens of African countries. Listeners in Johannesburg alone can choose from among dozens of radio stations, from the national broadcasts of the state-owned South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) to community stations targeting local neighbourhoods or ethnic groups. The constitution provides for freedom of the press, and this is generally respected. Laws, regulation and political control of media content are considered to be moderate and there is little evidence of repressive measures against journalists. However, critics have said a proposed Protection of State Information Bill is an attempt to stifle investigative journalism. The bill sets out harsh prison terms for people who leak state secrets. There are concerns that the bill does not allow journalists to use the public interest as grounds for revealing classified information. Newspapers and magazines publish reports and comment critical of the government, and the SABC is far more independent now than during the apartheid era. However, the corporation has been plagued by scandals, high-level resignations, and a financial crisis. There were 6.8 million internet users at the end of 2010 - nearly 14% of the population (via Internetworldstats.com). The use of mobile phones to access the internet is driving the growth in web access. Local instant messaging service MXit is the most popular social media platform, followed by Facebook. YouTube is available in Afrikaans and Zulu.
Sudanese broadcasting is highly restricted and state TV and radio reflect government policy. Pre-censorship ensures that the news reflects official views. Sudan ranked among the bottom 10 countries in the 2014 Reporters Without Borders press freedom index. "News is controlled, the media are under surveillance and journalists are harassed by the security forces," the watchdog has said. Satellite dishes are a common sight in affluent areas and pan-Arab TV stations are popular. Unlike in most other Arab countries, radio remains a major element in the news media environment. The state runs the main radio networks. There is a handful of private FM radios in Khartoum; most of them focus on entertainment or Islam. Dutch-based Radio Dabanga aims to reach listeners in Darfur via shortwave. The private press carries opposition views, but the state uses its powers to influence what is published. Sudan had 9.3 million internet users by July 2014, comprising around 24% of the population (Internetworldstats). Increased access to the internet and official curbs on traditional media have brought a rise in the use of social media. According to web filtering monitoring body OpenNet Initiative (ONI), "Sudan openly acknowledges filtering content that transgresses public morality and ethics or threatens order." Blogging is "subject to scrutiny and can incur serious consequences".
Police in Germany have closed the file on a nurse from Kent who went missing in the country 10 years ago. Louise Kerton, 24, from Broadstairs, was last seen on 30 July 2001 when she went to Aachen station to catch a train to Belgium, on her way back to the UK. Despite extensive investigations in both the UK and Germany, she has not been seen or heard from since. Her father Philip Kerton, from New Ash Green, said the family had now accepted that she must be dead. "As far as the German Police are concerned, from about six or eight months ago, the case is definitively closed. "As far as Kent Police are concerned, it's still open. "They'll still keep it under review and will investigate any leads that come up, and review the case as they do from time to time. "Hopefully they find, one day, new forensic techniques that will enable them to look again at some of the evidence they've accumulated." Mr Kerton said it was "an extra agony" to know that the case in Germany was closed. However, he said the family had decided some years ago that his daughter must be dead. "It was so unlike her not to be in touch with anybody at all... every now and again you begin to think 'what if' and you go through all the emotions of anger and questioning. "In many ways [it's] more comforting to think of her as dead and not undergoing some sort of tortured strange life somewhere. "There's always hope we'll discover what's happened," he said.
The Tunisian media have relished greater freedoms, and have been in flux, since the 2011 popular revolt. Under the former regime, press and broadcasters were tightly controlled. Since then, the number of broadcast and print outlets has increased, as has their freedom to report and debate political and social issues. State TV - which used to toe the government line - has changed tack, giving airtime to the former opposition. Freedom House says there is polarisation within the media, with news outlets divided by ideology, political affiliation and economic interests. The state broadcaster has two national TV channels and several radio networks. Egyptian, French and pan-Arab satellite TVs have a large following. Tunisia has a developed telecom environment, with a high rate of mobile phone ownership and relatively cheap broadband. There were more than 5 million internet users by 2014 (InternetLiveStats.com). Use of social media during the 2011 protests prompted commentators to describe the events as a "Facebook victory" and a "Twitter revolution". Facebook is extremely popular and is used by many as a news source. Pervasive filtering ended with the fall of Mr Ben Ali. Since then, officials have blocked Facebook pages set up by cyber activists, and courts have ordered bans on pornographic sites. La Presse - state-owned daily Esshafa - state-owned daily Assabah - privately-owned daily Alchourouk - privately-owned daily Le Temps - privately-owned daily Al-Watania (National TV) - state-run Hannibal TV - private, via satellite and terrestrially Nessma TV - private Tunisian Radio - state-run; four national and five regional stations Mosaique FM - private Jawhara FM - private Zitouna FM - Islamic Agence Tunis Afrique Presse - state-run, English-language pages Tunisia Live - news website, in English The Tunis Times - news website, in English
President: Yoweri Museveni Yoweri Museveni has been in office for more than a quarter of a century, having seized power at the head of a rebel army. He won fresh terms in office in presidential elections in February 2011 and 2016, having amended the constitution in 2006 to remove the previous limit on the number of terms a president could serve. The opposition, along with Commonwealth, US and European Union observers, complained about the fairness and transparency of these elections. Mr Museveni has been credited with restoring relative stability and economic growth to Uganda following years of civil war and repression under Milton Obote and Idi Amin before him. Mr Museveni co-founded one of the rebel groups which, with the help of Tanzanian troops, ousted Idi Amin in 1979. He then formed a new rebel army which eventually seized power in 1986. His National Resistance Movement (NRM) ran Uganda as a one-party state until a referendum brought back multi-party politics in 2005. He won presidential elections in 1996, and again in 2001, 2006 and 2011. He has faced UN criticism his role in the conflict in DR Congo between 1998 and 2003. More recently Uganda has been accused of aiding rebels there. The government has also faced growing criticism for failing to take action against senior officials implicated in corruption scandals. There is speculation that Mr Museveni is grooming his son Muhoozi Kainerugaba to succeed him. Born in western Uganda in 1944, Yoweri Museveni studied political science in Tanzania and fought with the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frelimo), where he picked up the techniques of guerrilla warfare.
All broadcasters transmitting from Zimbabwean soil, and many of the main newspapers, toe the government line. The main pro-government dailies, the Harare-based Herald and the Bulawayo-based Chronicle, are tightly controlled by the Information Ministry. The private press, which is relatively vigorous in its criticism of the government, has come under severe pressure. Newspaper cover prices are beyond the reach of many readers and publishers have been hit by escalating  costs. Draconian laws and institutions, along with prison sentences for "publishing false news", are used to clamp down on critical comment. Journalists who fail to register with a government body risk imprisonment. Radio is the main source of information. Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) operates TV and radio stations under the umbrella of state-owned Zimbabwe Broadcasting Holdings (ZBH). Two national private FM radio stations are licensed - one to a company owned by a supporter of Mr Mugabe, the other to a majority state-owned publisher. Overseas-based radios transmit into Zimbabwe: Voice of the People, set up by former ZBC staff with funding from the Soros Foundation and a Dutch organisation, leases a shortwave transmitter in Madagascar. From the US, government-funded Voice of America (VOA) operates Studio 7, which aims to be a source of "objective and balanced news". Radio broadcasts by foreign stations deemed hostile to the government have been subject to deliberate interference. There were around 6.7 million internet users by November 2015 (Internetworldstats.com). US-based Freedom House says the internet is nominally free from government interference. However, the medium is relatively expensive and prone to disruption because of power cuts.
President: Abdiweli Mohamed Ali "Gas" This US-trained economist beat the incumbent Abdirahman Muhammad Mahmud "Farole" by one vote in parliament to become the president of the Puntland autonomous region in January 2014. Mr Gas, who was born in north-central Somalia in 1965 and holds US and Somali joint citizenship, served as prime minister of Somalia in 2011-2012, and oversaw steady progress to drive back the Al-Shabab Islamist militia and to strengthen the central government's remit. He stood unsuccessfully for the presidency of Somalia in 2012. In 2013 be began canvassing Puntland opposition groups, and secured their support for his successful bid for the region's presidency on a platform of cooperation with the central government and a greater emphasis on boosting education and welfare. Mr Gas's predecessor, Mr Farole, had presided over a dramatic decline in piracy during his five-year term, although this was largely achieved by firmer international policing of Somali waters rather than any initiative by Puntland itself. Puntland is governed by a 66-member House of Representatives and a traditional council of elders. The territory's first leader, Colonel Abdullahi Yusuf, served a three-year term until 2001, when his attempt to extend his mandate triggered fierce fighting. Col Yusuf reclaimed the leadership in 2002 and led Puntland until his election as Somalia's transitional president in October 2004. He was known for his authoritarian approach. His successor, Mohamed Adde Muse, launched an ambitious programme of economic development with loans from the United Arab Emirates, but was defeated by Mr Farole in elections in 2009, setting a precedent for the smooth transfer of power in 2014.
The Indian Ocean islands of Zanzibar and Pemba lie off the east African coast. The semi-autonomous territory maintains a political union with Tanzania, but has its own parliament and president. A former centre of the spice and slave trades, present-day Zanzibar is infused with African, Arab, European and Indian influences. In 1964 members of the African majority overthrew the established minority Arab ruling elite. The leftist revolution was swift but bloody; as many as 17,000 people were killed. A republic was established and the presidents of Zanzibar and Tanganyika, on the mainland, signed an act of union, forming the United Republic of Tanzania while giving semi-autonomy to Zanzibar. Separatist sentiments have been gaining ground on the islands. Population 1.3 million Area 2,461 sq km (950 sq miles) Major language Kiswahili, English Major religion Islam Life expectancy 58 years (men), 62 years Currency Tanzania shilling President: Ali Mohamed Shein Ali Mohamed Shein from the governing CCM (Chama Cha Mapinduzi) party was voted in as president in elections in November 2010. In March 2016 he and the CCM party were declared winners of controversial re-run elections. The polls were a re-run of elections the previous October that were cancelled by the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) over fraud allegations. Fifteen European and US diplomats issued a joint statement regretting the vote, which was boycotted by the opposition. Zanzibar has its own cabinet, known as the Revolutionary Council, and a 50-seat house of representatives. Elections, by popular vote, are held every five years. The media in Zanzibar come under a different set of regulations to their counterparts in mainland Tanzania.
Scrap metal thieves have stolen lead roof tiles from miniature houses at Blackpool's model village tourist attraction. Owner Anita Brakewell said the thieves had targeted various properties which would now need to have their roofs replaced with roofing felt. She said despite the damage, the thieves stood to benefit by only a few hundred pounds. Police said instances of lead theft had more than doubled in a year. The model village near Stanley Park sits in two-and-a-half acres of landscaped gardens and is built to a one-twelfth scale. Properties range from a Scottish castle to a Cornish fishing village. There are thatched cottages, a Tudor village where model residents are enjoying a cricket match on the village green, and a working tram running through a shopping centre. Mrs Brakewell said: "Every year we have problems with vandalism and theft, we get our little people stolen. "We used to have an awful lot of golfers and we're down to about half a dozen because people pick them up and walk out with them. "But to be honest if you didn't laugh about it you couldn't do it. We make everything ourselves and you become quite passionate about it, and when they disappear or get lost you either laugh or cry, and I'd rather laugh." Lancashire police said in 2009 there were 728 lead thefts in the county, compared with 1,469 in 2010.
The threat from Northern Ireland-related terrorism to Great Britain has increased, the government's new counter-terrorism strategy says. The strategy concentrates on international terrorism and potential threats to the Olympic Games. Support for dissident republican terrorists in NI remains low, it says. But it notes the frequency of attacks within Northern Ireland has increased significantly from 22 in 2009 to 40 in 2010, and 16 attacks so far this year. It claims many more attacks have been successfully disrupted. Whilst the level of the terrorist threat within Northern Ireland is rated as severe, in Great Britain the threat level is considered substantial, meaning there is a strong possibility of an attack. The document says the number of terrorist-related arrests in Northern Ireland was 98% higher in 2010 than in 2009. The arrests rose from 106 in 2009 to 210 in 2010. Those 316 arrests led to 97 charges between January 2009 and December 2010. However the strategy document only lists nine convictions for terrorist offences over the same period. It says the number of arrests for Northern Ireland-related terrorism in Great Britain over the same period was relatively small - dropping from six arrests in 2009 to one arrest in 2010. One of the initiatives the government is considering for tackling terrorism is to allow post-charge questioning in cases where further substantial evidence emerges after charges have been brought. The Home Office says it will work with the Stormont government to ensure any changes are compliant with the legal system in Northern Ireland. The strategy states that significant additional funding has already been given to the PSNI to build its capabilities to investigate and disrupt terrorist attacks over the next four years. It adds that a significant percentage of security service operational resources will remain devoted to Northern Ireland-related terrorism.
Plans for a major development of houses and businesses in a Nottinghamshire town have been narrowly approved. Mansfield District Council debated the £250m Lindhurst scheme, which faced more than 140 objections. It includes up to 1,700 homes, as well as a new primary school, cemetery, community centre and park on the southern edge of the town. The planning committee voted five in favour, five against, with the chairman having the casting vote in favour. Protesters at the meeting shouted "shame" as the decision was made. The 169 hectare (417 acre) application is the largest ever submitted to the council. Developers, the Lindhurst Group, said it would bring major benefits to the local economy, including up to 4,000 jobs. Project co-ordinator, Richard Bowden, said: "We are relieved. We now have a major responsibility to deliver the jobs promised. "For a development of the size and momentum that is going to be needed to turn Mansfield around, there was no alternative. "We just hope that now we have the planning consent, people will look at the merits of what we are doing - at the enormous amounts of money that will be coming into the Mansfield economy." But objections included concern from Nottingham Wildlife Trust and the Ramblers Association over the loss of countryside and habitat. Independent Mansfield councillor Andrew Tristram, who opposed the plans, said concerns over congestion and the ability to deliver the promised benefits remained. "Given the fact the decision was controversial and decided on a casting vote, and also the reasons for departing from the local plan were tenuous, I'm sure local residents would like to see the secretary of state call the decision in," he said.
What made the business news in Asia and Europe this morning? Here's our daily business round-up: Concerns about Italy's public finances again topped the business news agenda in Europe. As the Italian government continues to work on an austerity budget, the International Monetary Fund urged it to take "decisive" action on cutting spending. In the UK there was mixed news from the latest jobs report. Official figures showed that the number of unemployed people in the UK fell 26,000 in the three months to May., and the unemployment rate dropped to 7.7%. However, the number of people claiming Jobseeker's Allowance in June rose by 24,500 to 1.52 million - the biggest such increase in two years. Also in the UK, leading retailer Marks and Spencer reported sales growth and a bigger market share despite the stagnant UK clothes market. Its like-for-like UK sales excluding VAT in the 13 weeks to 2 July rose 1.7% versus a year ago, in line with expectations. UK fashion brand Burberry has unveiled a 34% increase in revenues in its latest quarterly results. The clothes retailer, famous for its camel, red and black check pattern, reported revenues of Â£367m for the three months to 30 June, slightly ahead of expectations. The main headline coming out of Asia was China's growth rate slowing to 9.5% in the three months to the end of June, against growth of 9.7% in the previous quarter. Also in China, a report by environmental pressure group Greenpeace said suppliers to several global clothing brands are polluting two of the country's main rivers. Wednesday's Business Daily podcast asks whether the head or the heart should rule when making business decisions.
Award-winning actress Samantha Morton is being given an honorary degree by Nottingham Trent University. The Nottingham-born star is one of eight figures from the worlds of business, the arts, academia and media being honoured. Pop artist Sir Peter Blake, the man behind the cover of the Beatle's Sgt Pepper album, and art critic Adrian Searle will also be receiving awards. The degrees will be handed out at ceremonies from Monday to 22 July. Morton is receiving the degree of Doctor of Letters "in recognition of her internationally successful acting career", said the university. She has received two Oscar nominations for her performances in Jim Sheridan's In America (2002) and Woody Allen's Sweet and Lowdown (1999). Morton won Bafta and Emmy nominations for the role of Myra Hindley in Channel 4's Longford. And as a director she won a Bafta for her debut feature film, The Unloved, in 2010 - a semi-autobiographical drama about children in the care system. The actress, who trained at the Central Junior Television Workshop in Nottingham and got her first television role at the age of 13, is currently filming Cosmopolis, directed by David Cronenberg. Each year the university awards a small number of honorary degrees to individuals who have achieved outstanding success and distinction in their chosen fields. Honorary degrees are also being given to forensic scientist Dr Angela Gallop and Eleanor Sharpston QC, one of Europe's senior law officers. The first children's commissioner for England, Professor Sir Albert Aynsley-Green, the chair of the East Midlands Development Agency Dr Bryan Jackson OBE, Baron Parekh, a political scientist, will also be recognised.
The Italian Senate has passed a tough austerity budget, including cuts of 48bn euros ($67bn; ??42bn) over three years. The lower house must also adopt the measures in a vote on Friday. Correspondents say that is likely. Italy has one of the largest debt mountains in the eurozone and wants to avoid any need for a bail-out. Italian PM Silvio Berlusconi has said Italy is on the front line of the eurozone's economic difficulties. Italy raised 2.97bn euros ($4.2bn; ??2.6bn) through a sale of 15-year government bonds on Thursday, but had to offer a 5.9% rate of return - an all-time high for such bonds. BBC Europe editor Gavin Hewitt, in Rome, says both the government and the opposition know that Italy is under fierce scrutiny by the markets due to its large debts. Earlier this week, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) asked Italy to ensure "decisive implementation" of spending cuts. In a report, the IMF said Italy must make efforts to reduce public debt, maintain the stability of its financial sector and introduce structural reforms to boost growth. The package was put to parliament ahead of schedule, amid concerns that Italy may be the next country to be hit by the eurozone's debt crisis. Opposition parties voted against the package but agreed not to delay it, so as not to prolong uncertainty in the markets. It passed by 161 votes to 135 in the Senate on Thursday. Italy's Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti hopes his package will cut the deficit to zero by 2014 from this year's 3.9% of gross domestic product. He said in parliament that, without the budget, ''the monster debt from our past will swallow up our future''.
Surrey's police chief has said he is "frustrated" he cannot respond to claims his force was aware that Milly Dowler's phone had been hacked. The Dowler family was told shortly before the trial of her killer earlier this year that journalists had hacked into her phone and deleted messages. Chief Constable Mark Rowley said he could not comment while the Met Police phone-hacking investigation continues. He said he did not want to undermine the investigation. On Wednesday, Milly's parents Bob and Sally, along with her sister Gemma, met Prime Minister David Cameron in Downing Street over the phone hacking claims. They have also had meetings with Labour leader Ed Miliband and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg. Speaking to BBC Surrey, Mr Rowley said: "I am not going to get into detail of who knew what, when. "I am immensely frustrated about my inability to put all the facts out there. "But I'm sure you'll understand I'm going to be very determined not to undermine the Metropolitan Police investigation." Levi Bellfield was given a whole life tariff last month for murdering 13-year-old Milly, who was abducted from Walton-on-Thames in 2002. Following the trial at the Old Bailey, Mr Rowley criticised the way the Dowlers were cross-examined. He said he was "shocked" by their treatment and called for changes.
Human remains including parts of a skull and leg bones have been found during an archaeological dig at an Iron Age site in Caithness. The police and procurator fiscal service have been notified of the finds at Thrumster, near Wick, as normal procedure by archaeologists. The remains have still to be radiocarbon dated to determine how old they are. Ancient human remains have previously been uncovered in Caithness. AOC Archaeology and Yarrows Heritage Trust have been leading teams of 12 to 15 volunteers on the dig. Dr Andy Heald, of AOC Archaeology, said they had established the site held the ruins of a broch, a massive stone wall Iron Age roundhouse. He said the bones found could be those of a man. Dr Heald said: "At the moment we have no idea on a date. They could be 50 years old, or 3,000 years old." If analysis finds that the remains were ancient then they could have been placed as part of a ritual honouring the dead. Dr Heald said: "When skulls were found in the 19th Century people thought it had to do with cannibalism, or were war trophies. "Cannibalism is just nonsense." He added: "At another Caithness site at Whitegate human remains, horses and even puppies were placed at a broch 300 years after it was abandoned. "It was done in some sort of memory ritual, or for it to be a monument on the landscape." Caithness has more brochs per square mile than any other part of Scotland, according to Highland Council. Examples of the ancient buildings are also found on Orkney.
Internet giant Google has reported a large rise in profits and revenue, well ahead of market expectations. Net profit for the three months to June rose 36% on the same period last year to $2.5bn (Â£1.5bn), while revenues rose 32% to $9bn. Last month, Google launched its social networking site Google+, in an attempt to take on Facebook. The results were the first under chief executive Larry Page, who replaced Eric Schmidt in April. Mr Schmidt had held the role for 10 years. Analysts said the decision for Google co-founder Mr Page to take over was made because he now carries more weight with investors and could re-energise the search giant. The results will help reassure investors that the company is still thriving under his leadership. "We had a great quarter," said Mr Page. "I'm super excited about the amazing response to Google+." Shares in Google surged 11% in extended trading. Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said the results were "well beyond expectations from Wall Street". "Clearly, the combination of mobile search, Android, ad exchange, YouTube, and the core search businesses, they're all doing well," he said. "Google is no longer a one-trick pony. You might say six-trick pony if you count Google+."
Seven prisoners have been killed and 59 others have escaped after a riot at a jail in northern Mexico near the US border, officials say. Five guards are also missing and are believed to have aided the mass prison breakout in Nuevo Laredo town. Mexican police say the majority of those on the run are drug traffickers and members of armed gangs. The prison system is struggling to cope with an influx of offenders arrested in a campaign against drugs cartels. Correspondents say prison breakouts are not uncommon in northern Mexico, where more than 400 inmates have escaped since January 2010. Nuevo Laredo, in Tamaulipas state, lies just across the border from Laredo, Texas. The largest jail break so far was last December when more than 140 prisoners escaped from the same prison. According to a statement from the Tamaulipas state government, the riot began on Friday morning in Nuevo Laredo's Sanctions Enforcement Centre, which houses an estimated 1,200 prisoners. After the breakout, soldiers surrounded the jail and calm was restored, the authorities said. The northern border region is the scene of rising lawlessness as the cartels fight the security forces and each other for control of smuggling routes into the US. The main battle in Tamaulipas is between the Zetas and the Gulf cartels, the AFP news agency reports. Their capacity for violence and ability to pay huge bribes gives them considerable power to subvert the prison system and get their people out. President Felipe Calderon came to power in 2006 promising a war on drugs. More than 35,000 people have died in drug violence since he began his campaign, which has involved launching an army assault on drug gangs.
Dogs and cats are to be used to help hospital patients across north Wales. The Pets As Therapy initiative was launched at Ysbyty Glan Clwyd in Bodelwyddan by former Coronation Street actress Pauline Fleming. The health board said research showed that animal companionship can help speed up the rate of recovery. Pets will visit elderly mentally infirm patients, and dementia care, stroke rehabilitation, paediatrics, psychiatric and oncology departments. Pauline Fleming - who played Mike Baldwin's wife in Coronation Street - was at the hospital as the scheme officially got under way. The Pets As Therapy (PAT) charity organises visits by volunteer pet owners and their animals to people who are residents in hospitals, hospices, residential homes, nursing homes, day car centres, and special needs schools. Dawn Cooper, of the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board, said the charity already had long standing links with the mental health service at Glan Clwyd hospital. "This new development will ensure patients across the health board will be able to access this service," she added. The health board said research showed animal companionship could help rehabilitation in a variety of ways. Pets As Therapy co-ordinator Anne Jones said the volunteers and their dogs looked forward to visiting people missing their own pets while in hospital. "All our PAT dogs and cats must pass a rigorous independent health and temperament test before they can enter hospital premises," she said. "Twelve months ago the mental health Ablett Unit at Glan Clwyd hospital introduced Pets As Therapy as part of their 'star wards' project. "The dogs have been a huge success in the unit and the feedback from the patients has been extremely positive," she added.
A high-profile fertility clinic in Hong Kong has admitted that it implanted two embryos into the wrong woman. The two women affected are receiving compensation. Other pregnant women who have used the clinic say they are appalled by the medical error. The government's Council on Human Reproductive Technology decided to take no action against the Victory ART Laboratory. The council ruled the mistake was down to human error, not systemic failings. A junior embryologist neglected to read the label on the embryos before they were implanted in the wrong woman through IVF. The clinic realised the error very quickly and the embryos were taken out and discarded. The woman whose embryos they were and the woman who had them implanted have both received counselling and have been offered compensation, the clinic told local media. Victory ART Laboratory has been allowed to stay open after the council's investigation decided it was a human error. Some pregnant women who have used the clinic reacted angrily online. They said they were horrified by the error, with one saying she would consider a DNA test once her baby was born to check if it was hers. The IVF clinic is one of a group whose patients include several Hong Kong celebrities. The company also has clinics in Malaysia and the Philippines.
The boss of Everything Everywhere, the parent group of UK mobile phone networks Orange and T-Mobile, is standing down for "personal reasons". Tom Alexander, who will leave the chief executive role on 31 August, said he wished "to pursue other interests". He will be replaced by Olaf Swantee, who is currently executive vice president at France Telecom. Everything Everywhere is a joint venture between Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom. It started operations in May 2010 when the two companies merged their UK operations. Telecoms analysts have questioned whether the merger has been carried out as smoothly as had been intended. Mr Alexander was Everything Everywhere's first chief executive. He had previously held the same position at Orange UK from 2008. "It's been my privilege to serve Everything Everywhere these past twelve months, and Orange before that," he said. "Olaf will be an excellent chief executive and leader for Everything Everywhere moving forward." Mr Alexander will continue in an advisory role at the company until the end of the year. Mr Swantee is already on the board of Everything Everywhere. Prior to joining France Telecom, he worked for computer maker HP. Everything Everywhere is the UK's largest mobile phone network operator, with about 28 million customers across the Orange and T-Mobile brands. It has 16,000 employees and 700 stores. Its number of new contract customers slowed in the first quarter of 2011.
The Tornado base at RAF Marham in Norfolk threatened with closure under the government's defence review will stay open, it has been announced. The government had been looking at either closing the Tornado bases of RAF Lossiemouth in Moray or RAF Marham in Norfolk. Tornado operations were to be relocated to the base remaining open. But the government has decided to keep both operational. But RAF Leuchars will close and become an army base, with its Typhoons leaving for Lossiemouth in 2013 and the army starting to move in later. Concern over RAF Marham's future prompted a major campaign to save the base by councils, MPs and business leaders in Norfolk. South West Norfolk MP Elizabeth Truss, a campaigner to save RAF Marham, said: "I am absolutely delighted. "The campaign was not just based on a simple fondness for the RAF, it was founded on sound economic and strategic principles and I believe that resulted in the decisive decision to make it Marham." In the House of Commons, Defence Secretary Liam Fox praised the work of Ms Truss in the fight to save RAF Marham. Broadland MP Keith Simpson said: "This is excellent news for the RAF and defence of the country and a relief for people of Marham and Norfolk."
A British soldier who was killed in Afghanistan while on a routine patrol has been named as L/Cpl Paul Watkins by the Ministry of Defence. L/CPl Watkins, who was in the Brigade Advisory Group, died on Saturday. He was on a patrol with Afghan soldiers in the Nahr-e Saraj district of Helmand province when his team was fired on. The 24-year-old, who had served in the armed forces for four years, leaves behind his mother Jill, father Rod, and brothers Luke and Simon. An investigation has been launched into his death after reports he was shot by a man dressed in an Afghan national army uniform. In a statement, his family said: "Paul wanted to join the Army from a very young age.  He was proud to be a soldier and was proud of what he was doing; he died doing a job that he loved. "He was such a loving and caring son, grandson and brother. He will be very sadly missed by his family and friends who loved him dearly." And Lt Col William Fooks, Commanding Officer 9th/12th Royal Lancers (Prince of Wales's), said the soldier will be "missed immeasurably" but "never forgotten". "Lance Corporal Paul Watkins was absolutely someone you'd want on your team and by your side: tough, hugely dependable and determined yet compassionate," he said. "When all around him was frenzied activity, L/Cpl Watkins would be serenely and reassuringly calm. And combined with his arid sense of humour and his disarming grin, a big problem very quickly became no problem at all."
Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas has played down talk of a move for Anderlecht striker Romelu Lukaku. The Belgian club said they were in talks with the Blues over the 18-year-old's possible sale last month, However, while Villas-Boas praised Belgian international Lukaku, he insisted the club did not need to strengthen their attack. "To bring in another forward, at the moment I don't think we will," said the Portuguese. We need to find the correct balance and this is why pre-season is important "Lukaku had a magnificent season in Belgium. We are pondering every decision because we don't want to go into the market and make mistakes. "We have plenty of availability in terms of forwards who can play in different positions - with [Nicolas] Anelka, with [Salomon] Kalou, Didier [Drogba], [Fernando] Torres and [Daniel] Sturridge. "This is the reality at the moment of our squad. We need to find the correct balance and this is why pre-season is important." Lukaku, widely regarded as one of the most promising talents in European football, would reportedly cost in the region of £18m. The 6ft 4in frontman, whose contract runs out in 2013, is a strong and committed striker who is often referred to as 'the new Didier Drogba'. Lukaku scored 15 league goals in 2009/10 to help Anderlecht win the Jupiler League title, while last season he scored 16 goals from 37 appearances as his side finished third.
A famine has been declared in the African country of South Sudan. The United Nations and the government in the country have said that around 100,000 people are facing starvation. The famine is affecting a northern part of the country called the Unity state but aid groups say the famine could spread if urgent help is not given to the people there. They say more than 40% of South Sudan's population are in urgent need of food. There have been warnings of famine in Yemen, Somalia and north-eastern Nigeria, but South Sudan is the first country to declare one, in any part of the world in six years. But what does the term 'famine' mean? The word famine is used to describe a hunger crisis at its worse. Famine is the most serious of five phases that are used by the UN and most aid agencies. Certain requirements have to be met for a situation to be called a famine. These include: The declaration of a famine doesn't force governments and charities to act or do anything. But it's hoped it works as a wake-up call. The word is used carefully though. "It is a very strong word, with a strong impact," according to Brendan Paddy of the Disasters Emergency Committee, an organisation that launches big appeals for aid overseas. "We have to be precise about how we use it." "We have to raise the alarm before it's too late but we also don't want to be accused of crying wolf."
Libya's foreign minister has denied that Col Muammar Gaddafi's removal was being considered in efforts to end the country's conflict. "Gaddafi's departure is not being discussed," Abdelati Obeidi told reporters after talks in Moscow with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. Last week France said it had been contacted by Libyan envoys saying Col Gaddafi leader was prepared to leave. Meanwhile fighting has continued between pro-Gaddafi and rebel forces. There were fierce clashes on Wednesday near the eastern town of Brega - an important oil centre that has changed hands several times during the five-month-old conflict. In western Libya, rebel forces in Misrata say Nato air support has allowed them to advance further against government forces. Russia has been trying to mediate a deal to end the conflict. After Wednesday's talks in Moscow, Mr Obeidi said the Libyan government wanted to end the conflict with rebels seeking to end Col Gaddafi's 41-year rule. "We must all work on a peaceful solution in which all Libyans would participate and not just the council in Benghazi," he said, referring to the rebel Transitional National Council (TNC) based in the city of Benghazi. The rebels are holding eastern Libya and pockets in the west, but have so far not made decisive moves towards the capital Tripoli. On 12 July, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said: "The Libyan regime is sending messengers everywhere, to Turkey, to New York, to Paris" offering to discuss Col Gaddafi's exit. But he added that such contacts did not constitute negotiations. France played a key role in launching Nato-led strikes in Libya, under a UN-mandated mission to protect civilians. Coalition countries have insisted that the Libyan leader must stand down for hostilities to end.
Police want to speak to a driver who may have been overtaken by a car just before a fatal crash in Lancashire. Aftal Azram, 43, from Rochdale, Greater Manchester, died in the crash outside the Holden Arms pub, in Haslingden, at about 2230 BST on 27 May. His black BMW crossed onto the other side of the road and was in collision with a silver Ford Mondeo estate. Detectives want to speak to the driver of a black hatchback who was also travelling on Grane Road at the time. Police said the man driving was possibly overtaken by the BMW before the crash happened. He stopped at the scene and spoke with a number of other witnesses before driving down Holcombe Road. Sgt Mick Young, from the road policing unit, said: "If this was you then please come forward. I'm also keen to speak with any other witnesses at the scene who may have spoken with this man. "Just to be clear, we simply think this man could provide us with important information about the circumstances of the collision." The driver of the Mondeo, a 50-year-old man from Suffolk, was treated in hospital for a fractured collarbone after the crash. A 44-year-old woman passenger in his car was treated for a bleed on the kidneys, and a three-year-old child, who was also in the car, was unhurt.
A law has come into force in Belgium banning women from wearing the full Islamic veil in public. The country is the second European Union nation after France to enforce such a ban. Offenders face a fine of 137.5 euros (Â£121; $197) and up to seven days in jail. Two women who wear full veils launched an immediate court challenge, saying the law is discriminatory. France, home to Europe's biggest Muslim population, enforced its ban in April. Belgium's law bans any clothing that obscures the identity of the wearer in places like parks and on the street. It was passed almost unanimously by the lower house of parliament in April 2010. MPs voted with only two abstentions to back the legislation on the grounds of security, to allow police to identify people. Other MPs said that full face veils such as the burka or the niqab were a symbol of the oppression of women. But critics of the law say it could end up excluding women, leaving those who do wear the full veil trapped in their homes. And they say the measures are over the top - estimates suggest only a few dozen women wear this kind of veil in Belgium, out of a Muslim population of about half a million. "We consider the law a disproportionate intrusion into fundamental rights such as the freedom of religion and expression," Ines Wouters, the lawyer representing the two women challenging the ban, told the newspaper La Libre. She has taken their case to Belgium's constitutional court, where she will request a suspension of the law, AFP news agency reported.
A Cheshire businessman has been cleared of assaulting two policemen in Greater Manchester in August 2008. Arran Coghlan, 39, from Alderley Edge, was accused of assaulting two officers outside Mottram Towers in Stockport. Mr Coghlan said he reacted in self-defence and did not know the men were police when they approached him. The Crown Prosecution Service told Liverpool Crown Court the charges were being dropped as the prosecution could offer no evidence. Mr Coghlan was recently cleared in a multi-million pound drugs conspiracy case, after being accused of leading a cocaine-smuggling operation. He was arrested by the Serious Organised Crime Agency in September 2010 and cleared in June after prosecutors offered no evidence at Liverpool Crown Court. Mr Coghlan, who has denied any links with criminality, was charged with the murder of his friend Stephen Akinyemi after a fight at his home in Alderley Edge in February 2010. But prosecutors dropped that case because they could not prove he had not been acting in self-defence. Mr Coghlan was injured in the fight but Mr Akinyemi - who was known to police - was shot in the head and stabbed to the upper body, despite wearing a stab vest. The businessman was also cleared in 1996 of shooting Chris Little dead at the wheel of his Mercedes in Stockport. In 2003, he stood trial for the murder of drug dealer David Barnshaw, who was kidnapped and forced to drink petrol before being burned alive in the back of a car in Stockport in 2001. He was cleared after it transpired police failed to pass on important information about another possible suspect.
Hackers have started to release gigabytes of secret documents stolen from an Italian cybercrime unit. The 8GB of files has allegedly been taken from the network of the Italian CNAIPIC which oversees the country's critical IT infrastructure. In a message announcing the release, the Anonymous hacker group said it received the files from a "source". The attack on CNAIPIC is thought to be in retaliation for arrests of Italian members of Anonymous. Links to the first few confidential files purportedly stolen from CNAIPIC were placed on the Pastebin website. Anonymous claims the files were taken from the evidence servers of CNAIPIC (National Computer Crime Centre for Critical Infrastructure Protection). The documents include information about government offices such as Australia's Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Agriculture as well as data about private firms Gazprom, Exxon Mobil and many others. Preview images also shared by Anonymous reveal the management structure of CNAIPIC, pictures of staff and a long list of all the documents that have been taken. CNAIPIC has yet to respond to requests for comment. Officers from Italy's cybercrime division carried out a series of raids on homes of suspected Anonymous members in early July. Three people were arrested as a result.
The Turkish killer of the ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant Dink has been sentenced to nearly 23 years in prison. Ogun Samast, a Turkish ultra-nationalist, was 17 when he carried out the killing in January 2007. A panel of judges sentenced him to life imprisonment, but commuted the term because he was a minor at the time. Dink was the editor of a bilingual Turkish-Armenian newspaper, and had been prosecuted and convicted of denigrating "Turkishness". His offence was describing the mass killing of Armenians by Ottoman forces in the early 20th Century as genocide. He was shot dead by Samast outside his office in Istanbul. Several other people are also being tried for conspiracy over Dink's killing. Dink's lawyer, Fethiye Cetin, said the sentence sent a strong signal. "Ogun Samast and other suspects were not expecting this sentence. This could ruin their hope of being freed soon," he told Reuters. "This is very important to deter this sort of crime." The European Court of Human Rights ruled last year that Turkey had failed to protect Dink, despite being warned that ultra-nationalists were plotting to kill him. In June, a Turkish court gave two military officers and four other officials jail sentences for failing to act on the intelligence.
An ice cream van owner has been banned from trading - because he played his chimes for too long. Residents in Peterborough complained after hearing Wajid Hussain's van driving along to Teddy Bears' Picnic. Officials say he was using the tune for longer than the four seconds he was allowed to play it. The city council also refused his licence because of complaints relating to his parking and where he was operating. Licensing regulatory officer Darren Dolby said it sent a strong message to other vendors to abide by trading laws. The council received a total of 14 complaints about Mr Hussain, who trades as Adam Ices, over a three-month period. These included parking his van dangerously, trading without consent in certain areas of Peterborough and playing his chimes for longer than allowed. Only two of the complaints related to the van's chimes. Members of the city council's licensing team gave evidence that Mr Hussain had been given a number of verbal and written warnings to comply - but this advice had been ignored. Mr Dolby said: "We are pleased that the decision to revoke Hussain's licence was upheld by the committee." A spokesman from the Ice Cream Alliance, the UK trade association for ice cream manufacturers and retailers, said: "The restrictions on chimes are part of a national code of practice which ice cream sellers have to adhere to. "We have asked the government to relax these restrictions but until they do, all our members are advised to work within this code." Mr Hussain told the BBC he did not wish to comment.
The man behind a mystery gnome invasion in two villages in Derbyshire says he did it "to put smiles on faces". About 40 small plastic gnomes were left on doorsteps overnight in Borrowash and Draycott over the past few weeks, leaving residents puzzled. The prankster told BBC Derby his campaign was at an end but may resume in the run-up to Christmas. He said he wanted to be anonymous but was delighted by kind messages posted on his spoof account on Facebook. "I've had so many lovely messages from people saying what a good job I've been doing. "People are saying Borrowash hasn't been so happy in years. I'm absolutely delighted." The joker, who gave himself the spoof name Freddie Fisher, said he came up with the idea after he left a gnome outside a friend's house and enjoyed seeing their surprised response. He then started donning a long black wig as a disguise before heading out late at night to drop off the gnomes at homes, shops and cafes. A gnome was even left outside BBC Radio Derby's studios after the mystery was discussed on air. The campaign ended on a poignant note with the final gnome being placed outside the home of a Borrowash woman who had been fighting a serious illness. Freddie said: "Glenda hasn't been very well. She's bed ridden in her house and I wanted to put a smile on her face." He said he would now be taking a long break before returning for an "even bigger campaign" close to Christmas.
A memorial to three soldiers murdered by the IRA on the outskirts of Belfast has been vandalised for a fifth time, a local fundraiser has said. The monument, at White Brae, Ligoneil, commemorates three fusiliers from Scotland who were killed in March 1971. John MacVicar, from the local Royal British Legion branch, said paint has been poured over the memorial and on wreaths that had been left by mourners. He said vandals also tried to break the granite in the attack on Tuesday night. The memorial was erected three years ago at the site where the bodies of teenage brothers John and Joseph McCaig, and their 23-year-old colleague Dougald McCaughey, were found more than three decades before. Mr MacVicar, who helped raise funds to build the monument, is the secretary of Oldpark/Cavehill Royal British Legion branch. He said he believed it was a "sectarian hate attack". "This is now the fifth time the memorial has been attacked since it was unveiled in 2009.  The damage caused the last time cost in excess of Â£1500 to repair," he said. Mr MacVicar claimed: "There is absolutely no doubt that this is a further attempt by republicans to remove from history the fact that the IRA murdered three young boys, two brothers aged 17 and 18 and the third aged 23 who were unarmed and out for an off duty afternoon in Belfast in 1971 simply because they were in the British Army." A spokesman for the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said they had not yet received a report of the attack. Last July, sectarian graffiti was scrawled on the memorial stone. Corner posts, and the surrounding rope were also broken.
Former BBC new media head Ashley Highfield has been appointed chief executive of Johnston Press, the regional newspaper group which owns The Scotsman. He will succeed John Fry, who is to stand down on 31 October. Mr Highfield is a vice president of Microsoft, responsible for its UK consumer and online business, including the UK's largest content portal, MSN. Previously, he was director of new media and technology at the BBC. Mr Highfield was responsible for the launch of the BBC iPlayer and was also editor-in-chief of BBC Online, after which he became chief executive of the video-on-demand BBC/ITV/C4 joint venture Project Kangaroo. Mr Highfield started his career with Coopers and Lybrand Management Consultancy. He later became managing director of Flextech (now Virgin Media) Interactive. Johnston Press chairman Ian Russell said Mr Highfield's "combined online and media sector pedigree" would be a major strength in enabling the group to re-grow its business. In May, the Edinburgh-based company reported a 10.6% drop in advertising for the first few months of the year. It said public sector cuts had led to a 30% fall in job advertising revenues but added the rate of decline was beginning to slow. Johnston Press recorded pre-tax profits of Â£16.5m in 2010, up from a loss of Â£114m in 2009. As well as The Scotsman and the Yorkshire Post, Johnston Press owns local papers across the UK and Ireland including the Falkirk Herald - the weekly paper from which the company grew.
Blackburn Rovers' El-Hadji Diouf has been banned from all football-related activities in Senegal for five years. The Senegalese Football Federation (FSF) handed the ban to the forward after remarks he made in the media about corruption in African football. An FSF statement read: "Diouf is banned from performing any football-related activity for a period of five years." Diouf reacted angrily to the FSF's claims that he had failed to appear for a disciplinary hearing last week. The committee wanted to ask the Blackburn striker about comments he had made on Radio France International, claiming that "the whole system of African football is corrupt". The federation claimed Diouf had been called to a hearing on 20 July, but the Blackburn forward insisted he had heard nothing of it. Diouf is banned from performing any football-related activity for a period of five years He subsequently told French magazine Stade he would "go to war" with the FSF if they took further action. It remains possible, according to the FSF, that the decision could be reversed if Diouf were to appear before the disciplinary committee. The news comes as Diouf's club career hangs in the balance. He has been fined by Blackburn for failing to report on time for pre-season training, and was left out for their pre-season tour to Hong Kong. Manager Steve Kean said in an interview this week that he thought it was time for Diouf to leave the club, indicating that enquiries have been made by other clubs.
Eurozone inflation unexpectedly slowed in July to 2.5%, raising questions about when the European Central Bank (ECB) might raise interest rates again. The preliminary estimate is down from 2.7% in June, according to the European Union statistics office Eurostat. The July reading comes as a surprise after data earlier this week suggested inflation in Germany, Europe's largest economy, edged up to 2.4%. The ECB has raised rates twice so far this year to try to control inflation. The central bank wants to keep inflation below 2%. No change had been expected in the inflation rate in July. It is not clear what drove the decline, as Eurostat's initial estimate does not give a breakdown of the numbers - that is only released with the final estimate. Economists said that the chance of the ECB raising rates from the current 1.5% before the end of the year now appeared less likely. "While a further interest rate hike in the fourth quarter is clearly very possible, we suspect that slowing eurozone growth and recurrent sovereign debt problems will present an increasingly compelling case for the ECB to hold off from further monetary policy tightening this year," said Howard Archer from IHS Global Insight. "We also anticipate that the case for further ECB action in 2011 will be diluted by mounting evidence that the second-round inflationary effects from higher energy and commodity prices are being contained. "We currently expect the ECB to keep interest rates at 1.5% through the rest of 2011, then lift them gradually further to 2.25% by the end of 2012."
A former district councillor from Cumbria has been jailed for a string of sexual offences against young people. Tony Brunskill had earlier admitted nine indecent assaults on a boy aged 13 or above, and seven counts of sexual activity with a child under 16. Then before sentencing on Friday, he also pleaded guilty to three counts of indecent assault against a third boy. The judge at Carlisle Crown Court sentenced the 66-year-old to a 10-year jail term. He described Brunskill's behaviour as "disgusting" and said it had devastated the victims and their families. The indecent assaults took place while he was working at a school in Lancashire in the 1970s. The sexual activity charges, which also included meeting a child for the purpose of sexual grooming, related to a Cumbrian boy and took place between 2008 and 2010. Brunskill, of Salkeld Dykes near Penrith, is a former chairman of Eden District Council. Speaking after the case, Det Sgt Kurt Taylor, of Cumbria Police, said: "I would like to applaud the victims in this case for having the courage to come forward and tell us what this man did to them. "We will never know why he abused his victims, or the true extent of his offending, as he chose not to explain himself when interviewed."
Palermo midfielder Javier Pastore has signed a five-year deal with Ligue 1 side Paris Saint-Germain. PSG have reportedly paid the Italian side a French record £37m to make the Argentine, 22, their eighth signing of the summer. Boosted by funds from the Qatar Investment Authority, PSG have already spent around £73.6m this summer. Pastore, who was linked with Chelsea, said: "I want to be a part of PSG, a great club with a great history." Pastore played 35 matches for Palermo last season, scoring 11 goals. The Qatar Investment Authority bought a controlling stake in the club in May. Former Liverpool midfielder Mohamed Sissoko and Kevin Gameiro, who scored 22 league goals for fellow Ligue 1 side Lorient last season, have also moved to the French capital this summer. But the Argentina international's move from the Italian Serie A side is PSG's highest-profile acquisition in their bid for a first league title since 1994. Pastore began his career with Talleres and then Huracan in Argentina, before moving to Palermo in 2009. Pastore has won nine caps for Argentina and played in the recent Copa America, where Argentina lost to Uruguay in the quarter-finals. PSG's previous record transfer was the £20m they paid Real Madrid for Nicolas Anelka in 2000. They finished fourth in Ligue 1 last season and will be playing in the Europa League this term.
An independent Texas-based company has bought the oil refinery at Pembroke in a £447m deal. It is hoped the deal with a subsidiary of Valero Energy Corporation will secure the refinery's future. The refinery employs 1,400 people and is said to be worth about £1.5m a week to Pembrokeshire's local economy. "Today marks the beginning of an exciting new chapter in Valero's history," said chairman, CEO and president Bill Klesse. "We welcome everyone at Pembroke to the Valero family." Valero has acquired the refinery from Chevron, as well as the marketing and logistics assets and was "funded from available cash". The Pembroke plant is said to be one of Europe's largest and most complex refineries, with a total capacity of 270,000 barrels per day. Valero now has 15 refineries, managing 2.9 million barrels of throughput capacity overall. Valero also purchased ownership interests in four major pipelines and 11 fuel terminals, acquired a 14,000 barrel per day aviation fuels business, and a network of more than 1,000 Texaco-branded service stations in the UK and Ireland. The Chevron plant had been on the market for a year, and Valero said in March it agreed to pay $730m (£456m) for the refinery and $1b (£625m) for the assets.
Two people arrested by British armed forces in Afghanistan have been freed, the Ministry of Defence has said. "We can confirm ... that two individuals detained by ISAF forces in mid-July were released from detention in Kandahar on 29 July," an MoD spokesman said. The pair, a man and a woman, are both reported to be British passport holders with dual nationalities. They were detained in a joint operation by local forces and UK troops. Reports at the time said the two had been picked up in the city of Herat and were believed to have gone to Afghanistan from the UK. "Detention operations are a vital element of protecting UK, ISAF and Afghan forces and Afghan civilians from those who are assessed to pose a threat regardless of their nationality," the MoD said in a statement at the time of the arrest. The Legal charity Reprieve, which campaigns for prisoners' rights, wrote to the Foreign Office to warn that they could face torture or the death penalty if transferred to Afghan custody. A Home Office spokeswoman refused to comment on whether the pair would be allowed back to Britain. The MoD statement said the two had been released "in accordance with UK detention policy."
Trains between London and Gatwick Airport continue to be disrupted after tracks were flooded in south London. Many services were cancelled after a water main burst near South Croydon station on Monday, causing a landslip. Southern said four out of five lines were now available and a full service was planned on Wednesday morning. A reduced half-hourly Gatwick Express route has operating, and there were restrictions between London Bridge, Uckfield and Reigate stations. South Croydon and Purley Oaks stations remained closed all day. There were timetable changes to many First Capital Connect routes between Bedford, London and Brighton, with some trains cancelled. Travellers have been told they can check details of changes at the National Rail Enquiries website. Thames Water said it was "really sorry for the disruption", which was caused by a burst main at Water Tower Hill. "We had a team on site to deal with the burst within an hour," it added. "Despite the water pipe being buried 4.5m (15ft) below ground, we were able to shut the main off within two hours, without disrupting water supplies to 15,000 customers." Network Rail said there was a significant amount of water on the track, along with mud and other debris. Engineers worked through the night to stabilise the embankment.
Cuba's National Assembly has given its backing to President Raul Castro's plans to reform the country's stagnating economy. The reforms, ranging from the setting up of small businesses to reducing bureaucracy, had already been agreed by the ruling Communist party. Mr Castro also hinted that changes to the country's controversial travel and emigration rules could be introduced. He said those attempting to undermine the reforms could face prosecution. The BBC's Michael Voss in Havana says one of the biggest obstacles Mr Castro now faces is resistance from party bureaucrats who face losing their job under the changes. But the president warned lawmakers that "bureaucratic resistance is useless". Mr Castro told parliament that the time had come for social and political reforms to be introduced. "Let's clean our heads of all sorts of nonsense," he said. The measures the assembly was discussing in its twice-yearly session include cutting more than one million state jobs in a move to reduce Cuba's vast bureaucracy and reducing the state's role in areas such as agriculture, retail and construction. Small private businesses will be encouraged to step in to fill the space, while state subsidies for goods and service will be phased out. Mr Castro also said the government was "working to orchestrate the modernisation" of the country's migration policies. Human rights groups have long criticised the requirement for Cubans to get government permission to travel abroad - a remnant of the days when Cubans emigrated for political rather than economic reasons. Mr Castro said the rules had "played a role in their time and endured unnecessarily".
The number of children in social care has increased by 25% to 475 since 2009, Somerset County Council has said. Referrals, where a child is reported due to welfare concerns, have also gone up from 3,500 to 5,500, between 2009-11, and child protection plans have increased by 30% in two years, to 290. The increase has been blamed on drug and alcohol misuse or parents with "personal difficulties". The council has spent an extra £3.9m to pay for the increased workload. The legal costs of care and placements account for a large part of the budget. The service director for safeguarding and children's social care at Somerset County Council, Linda Barnet said: "Assessments where a parent and child go for a placement can cost £2,500 - £3,000 a week if it's out-of-county with an agency." "It could be for a period of up to six months but we would try to make those periods for as short as possible and we are developing in-house provision for that." During assessments, both the parent and child are put under 24-hour observation with a trained foster carer to see whether the child will properly cared for. Child protection plans, where the child might be taken into care with another member of the family or into foster care, can cost an average of £470 a week in Somerset. The original budget for children's social services in 2010-11 was £30m. An extra £3m has been put aside this year which will bring the the total amount spent on children's social care to £33m for 2011-12.
A private box at the Royal Albert Hall has been put up for sale for £550,000. The box, which can seat five people, is located on the second tier of the Grade I listed building in Kensington, central London, which opened in 1871. The private box is the only remaining one in the hall to retain the original timber veneer and mirrored panels, estate agent Harrods Estates said. Earl Spencer and the Duke of Devonshire have previously owned the box, but the current owner has not been revealed. The box is located on the eastern side of the auditorium and has about 865 years remaining on the lease. When the building was being constructed in the 19th Century, several seats were offered for sale to private individuals on a 999-year lease. Queen Victoria bought 20 of the 1,300 privately-owned seats for £100 each, in addition to the Queen's box. The seats and the box, located on the Grand Tier, are still owned by the monarchy. Shirley Humphrey, sales and marketing director for Harrods Estates, said: "The boxes at the Royal Albert Hall are extremely rare, and those with original features are even rarer, so we anticipate to receive a high level of interest." The estate agent said it had sold other private boxes in the past, including a 10-seater Grand Tier box - one of the largest at Royal Albert Hall - for £1.2m in June 2008.
A crew member on the Woolwich Ferry has died after falling off the boat in the River Thames in south-east London. Ben Woollacott, 19, is thought to have been hit by the ferry's propellers in the accident at about 06:10 BST. Mr Woollacott's family had worked as Thames boatmen for five generations and had given "great service to the river", Transport for London (TfL) said. The Woolwich Ferry, a free service between Woolwich and North Woolwich, was suspended for the rest of the day. A spokesman for the London Coastguard said Mr Woollacott was understood to have fallen while mooring ropes were being untied. Coastguards pulled him ashore but waiting paramedics were unable to revive him and he was pronounced dead at the scene. Leon Daniels, managing director of TfL surface transport, said: "It is with immense sadness that I learned of the death this morning of Ben Woollacott following an incident on the Woolwich Ferry. "Many generations of Woollacotts have given great service to the river with Ben keeping up the family tradition and following in his father's footsteps. "I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Ben's family, friends and colleagues.  He will, I know, be very sadly missed." The Woolwich Ferry was closed for the rest of Wednesday while investigations were carried out. A one-boat service was expected to run from Thursday until further notice. A Metropolitan Police spokesman said the Marine Accident Investigation Branch and officers from Greenwich would be investigating the death.
Inspector Morse is to return to TV screens in a one-off show about the detective's early career. Endeavour, which will be filmed in Oxford, will feature The Take star Shaun Evans in the role made famous by John Thaw. Set in 1965, the story revolves around a hunt for a missing schoolgirl and will give viewers the chance to see where the detective's love for crosswords and classic cars came from. It is expected to air on ITV next year. "Morse as a young man is a wonderful character that I'm very excited to be playing," said Evans. "My hope is that we can complement what's come before, by telling a great story and telling it well." ITV drama commissioner Laura Mackie said the drama, titled after Morse's first name, was "a beautifully written story". The first Morse was broadcast in 1987 with a total of 33 films made over the next 13 years. Nearly 14 million people tuned in to watch the final episode in 2000 when novelist Colin Dexter's hero died from a heart attack. John Thaw died of cancer in 2002 at the age of 60. Evans has appeared in the films Being Julia and Boy A and played Nirvana lead singer Kurt Cobain in a stage play.
If you need more advice on coping with death, or want to help out a friend who's having problems, there are some places you could try. Childline is a charity that helps children with advice on pretty much anything. As well as the website address there is also a helpline you can ring - 0800 1111. Winston's Wish is a charity that helps children with bereavement. It's been going for 16 years and has a helpline that your parent or carer could ring to get information and guidance - 08088 020 021 Grief Encounter is another charity website that tries to help children deal with bereavement. Its aim is to get the best help to every child and their family when they need it. Child Bereavement UK provides specialised support and information when a child is bereaved. Their free helpline number is 0800 02 888 40. Cruse Bereavement Care has a special website for kids and a free phone helpline on 0808 808 1677. There are lots of other services around too. Some of them may have things you can do or meetings you can go to where you live. You can find many of them online. If you're not sure how to track them down get an adult to help you. The Childhood Bereavement Network is a good place to start.
President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil has replaced her defence minister after he made disparaging remarks about other senior officials. Nelson Jobim is the third minister to lose his job since Ms Rousseff took office in January - a turnover that has strained her governing coalition. He is reported to have called one fellow minister a "weakling" and described others as "idiots". Mr Jobim will be replaced by the former Foreign Minister, Celso Amorim. Nelson Jobim is one of several ministers who also served under Ms Rousseff's predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. He is said to have been angry that Ms Rousseff overruled him on a multi-billion dollar contract to buy fighter jets. In recent weeks he been reported as making a series of critical remarks about fellow ministers. First he said at an opposition event that he was surrounded by "idiots". Then he said in a television interview that he had voted for Ms Rousseff's opponent Jose Serra in last year's presidential election. The final straw appears to have been a magazine interview, parts of which have been leaked, in which he reportedly called another minister a "weakling". Mr Jobim's resignation is the third to shake Ms Rousseff's government since she took office on 1 January. Last month, her Transport Minister Alfredo Nascimento resigned over a corruption scandal in his department, though he denied any wrongdoing. And in June her chief of staff, Antonio Palocci, stepped down in the face of questions about his rapid accumulation of personal wealth.
A US man charged with sending more than 27 million spam messages to Facebook users has turned himself in. Sanford Wallace, who is known as the "Spam King", surrendered to FBI agents in California. Prosecutors allege he developed a program that breached Facebook spam filters and lured users to submit their account details. Mr Wallace denies the charges, which carry prison sentences of up to 10 years. He has been released on $100,000 (Â£61,000) bail. Prosecutors say Mr Wallace's program posted messages on Facebook users walls - purportedly from friends - urging users to visit a website where their account details were then harvested. They were then redirected to an affiliate website that earned Wallace "substantial revenue", the charges say. The program also retrieved lists of Facebook users' friends and posted spam messages on their walls, the indictment adds. About 500,000 Facebook accounts were compromised between November 2008 and March 2009, leading to more than 27 million spam messages being sent, prosecutors said. Mr Wallace, who is from Las Vegas, is charged with six counts of electronic mail fraud, three counts of intentional damage to a protected computer and two counts of criminal contempt. Facebook sued Mr Wallace in 2009 and a federal judge ordered him not to access Facebook's computer network. However, prosecutors say he repeatedly violated that order earlier this year. Mr Wallace also lost a civil case brought against him by MySpace in 2008 over junk messages sent to members of the social networking site.
The ringleader of the US military guards who photographed their abuse of suspected Iraqi insurgents at Baghdad's Abu Ghraib prison has been released. Charles Graner served more than six-and-a-half years of a 10-year sentence, army officials said. Graner, a former US Army Reserve specialist, was convicted of leading his six-member team in the sexual humiliation of naked prisoners. Images of the acts emerged in 2004, sparking international outrage. He said he was breaking down prisoners for interrogation on the orders of military intelligence officers. His former fiancee and fellow guard Lynndie England served a three-year sentence for her part in the abuse. US military spokeswoman Rebecca Steed said Graner, who was freed from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, will be under the supervision of a probation officer until December 2014. Graner and six other members of the Maryland-based 372nd Military Police Company were charged in 2004 with abusing detainees. Some of them appear in the infamous photographs of prisoners being humiliated and beaten, displaying obvious satisfaction at the acts. Graner said the actions were part of a plan directed by military intelligence officers to soften up prisoners for interrogation. He received the longest sentence of those convicted and is the last defendant in the Abu Ghraib case to be released. Hana Adwar, an Iraqi human rights activist, told the Associated Press news agency that his release would be met with outrage in Iraq. "He was charged with a crime that shocked the international community," she said.
Bahrain has freed two former Shia opposition MPs arrested in the wake of widespread anti-government protests. Jawad Fairooz and Matar Matar were detained in May after resigning from parliament in protest at the handling of the protests. Mr Matar told the BBC they had been tortured in prison. They were prosecuted in a security court on charges of taking part in illegal protests and defaming the country. It is not clear if they still face trial in a civilian court. Civilian courts took over jurisdiction after King Hamad Bin Issa Al Khalifa lifted a state of emergency in June. Mr Matar told the BBC he believed his arrest had been intended to put a pressure on his al-Wifaq party. "At some stages we were tortured," he said. "In one of the cases we were beaten." Human rights lawyer Mohamed al-Tajir was also released. He was detained in April having defended people arrested during the Saudi-backed suppression of protests in March. Correspondents say their release appears to be an attempt at defusing tensions in the country, a key US ally in the region that hosts the US Navy's 5th Fleet. Bahrain's King Hamad Bin Issa Al Khalifa recently accepted a series of reforms drawn up by a government-backed committee created to address grievances that emerged during the protests. The kingdom's Shia community makes up about 70% of the population but many say they are discriminated against by the minority Sunni monarchy.
A divided sculpture of a fish has been installed in Pwllheli, inspired by the town's sea-faring and fishing traditions. The stainless steel fish, surrounded by textured concrete, seems to dive under the Gwynedd town's main thoroughfare. Artist Benjamin Storch, who created it, held workshops with local young people to produce the winning design. Regeneration scheme Pwllheli Partnership said it hoped it will "improve the aesthetics of the area". The eye-catching creation was being installed in Pwllheli town centre on Monday and is due to be completed on Tuesday. The fish's tail disappears into the pavement near the Conservative Club, and its head emerges over the road by the Mitre pub. The installation is a joint project by Gwynedd Council's Community Arts Unit and South Pwllheli Communities First, funded by the council's Responding to the Recession fund. Young people from the Cynllun Ieuenctid Pwllheli (CIP) scheme and students from Coleg Meirion Dwyfor created a number of designs. The public were asked to comment on them before the final plan for the sculpture was decided. Coun Roy Owen, Gwynedd's portfolio leader with responsibility for community arts, said the project aimed to "give local people the opportunity to be creative and to contribute towards the work of reviving and regenerating Pwllheli town centre". "I am delighted that so many people have been able to take part," he said. Stephen Tudor from the Pwllheli Partnership said there has been a number of projects in Pwllheli recently to enhance and regenerate the centre. "This project is welcomed as part of this effort," he said.
The Swiss government has pledged action to reduce the value of the franc, saying that "energetic intervention" was required. The comments came after an emergency meeting, but no details were released about what measures may be planned. Currency investors have been piling into the Swiss franc, which - like gold - is popular in times of trouble because of its relative safety. This has increased the value of the franc, hurting Swiss exporters. The US dollar hit a record low of 0.7485 against the franc on Monday, before the greenback recovered slightly to 0.7525. The Swiss franc remains about 30% stronger against the dollar than a year ago. Meanwhile, Switzerland's main SMI stock index ended Monday trading down 4%. The franc also strengthened 0.3% to 1.0917 per euro, despite the European Central Bank said be intervening in the financial markets to help bring stability. According to the Bloomberg news agency, the franc is higher this year against 16 major currencies. "The Swiss franc is the gauge of how nervous the market is," said Jane Foley, a foreign exchange strategist at Rabobank International. In January, Switzerland's Federation of Small and Medium Businesses described the franc's appreciation as a "crisis". The Swiss central bank has in the past intervened in the currency markets to halt the franc's rise against the euro, but with only limited success. Last week, the country cut its interest rates in a bid to make its currency less attractive.
Google is helping to raise cash to restore a derelict building  at Bletchley Park. During World War II,  Bletchley code-breakers gleaned information from German communications that proved vital to the Allied victory. The building, known as Block C, held the punch card index that acted as a "search engine" at the heart of decryption work. In 2010, Google helped return papers of cryptanalyst Alan Turing to Bletchley. Bletchley Park, which now houses the National Museum of Computing, is also widely recognised as having a pivotal role in the computer industry because machines built to help crack codes laid the foundation for more modern devices. Block C was built of brick and had an internal steel frame and a reinforced concrete roof to protect the punched cards stored inside. Last used in 1984, the building is now derelict. Efforts to raise cash to fund the restoration began with a garden party held at Bletchley on 4 August. The event raised about £10,000. Once restored, Block C will serve as a visitor and learning centre for both Bletchley Park and the National Museum of Computing. Efforts to save and restore Bletchley have been ongoing for some years. In October 2009, it received £500,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund to begin restoration work. In March 2010 it won a government grant of £250,000 for critical repairs. Many others, both individuals and businesses, are helping it build up a fund of about £10m to restore the entire site.
Hit 1980s film Dirty Dancing is to return to the big screen, a Hollywood film studio has said. Lionsgate is remaking the 1987 film that starred Jennifer Grey opposite Patrick Swayze. Kenny Ortega, who choreographed the original, directed Michael Jackson movie This Is It and High School Musical, will direct the remake. "The opportunity to direct Dirty Dancing is like returning home for me," Ortega told film magazine Variety. "I am looking forward to assembling a great creative team and an exciting cast to bring Dirty Dancing to the screen for a new generation. "Patrick Swayze set the bar for men dancing in movies as Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire did before him," he added. The original romantic movie, which was set in the 1960s, tells the story of a teenage girl who falls in love with her dance teacher while on holiday with her family. The accompanying soundtrack was a big success and included number one hits such as Time of my Life and Hungry Eyes. It has since been made into a successful stage show, and after a five-year run in the West End which ended in July, the musical begins a tour of the UK in September. Grey, 51, who played Baby in the original film, was crowned the winner of US show Dancing with the Stars last year. Swayze, who played Johnny, died of pancreatic cancer in September 2009 at the age of 57.
Two teenagers have been arrested after messages were posted on Facebook allegedly inciting others to commit acts of disorder. A 16-year-old was detained during an operation in Glasgow's south side at 12:40 on Monday. He has been charged with breach of the peace and is due to appear at Glasgow Sheriff Court on Wednesday. An 18-year-old man is expected to appear at Dundee Sheriff Court over similar allegations. Tayside Police said they were following other positive lines of inquiry to identify others who may be inciting others to cause public disorder. The arrests come after rioting and looting in London at the weekend spread to other English cities. Police said they were monitoring social networking sites closely and would take "decisive action" to prevent violence. The Strathclyde force said there was no intelligence "at this time" to suggest that there was any trouble planned. Earlier, the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland confirmed that forces here were on standby to help colleagues in England if requested. There have been three nights of violence in London since a 29-year-old man was shot dead in Tottenham by police on Thursday. A peaceful protest over the death of Mark Duggan was followed by violence which spread to other parts of the city on Sunday. A third night of unrest saw violence spread outside London to Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, Nottingham and Bristol.
The life of a 19th Century Clackmannanshire baker who went on to become a world authority on botany is to be celebrated. Robert Dick was born in Tullibody, in 1811 and was apprenticed to a local baker after leaving school, aged 13. But he began to study in his spare time, eventually becoming a world-renowned expert on the botany and geology of Caithness. His achievements are being marked by the Tullibody History Group. The group said the event would look at the legacy of a "remarkable, entirely self-taught man". Despite a relatively humble upbringing - the son of an excise officer - his achievements were noted by some of the most prominent scientists of the day. Sir Roderick Murchison of the British Association of Scientists was said to have remarked about him: "I found to my humiliation that this baker knew more of botanical  science - aye - 10 times more than I did." And the well-known naturalist Hugh Miller, who received many fossils from Dick, wrote that "he has robbed himself to do me service". In 1863, Dick had to sell part of his geological collection, which is now in the National Museums Scotland. He continued his research, but in August 1866 he collapsed while gathering specimens in a quarry. He never recovered fully and died four months later. The only memorial to him is in Thurso Cemetery, the Tullibody History Group said. Members of the group hope to erect a new memorial to the man to mark the bicentenary of his birth this year, as well as publishing a book about his life. An event on 27 August at the Tullibody Heritage centre would give a "fascinating insight into an unusual man", the group added.
A special tribunal in Bangladesh to look into atrocities carried out during the war of independence from Pakistan in 1971 has been adjourned. The tribunal in Dhaka was set up by the Bangladeshi government. For the first time, charges were due to have been brought against those accused of committing mass murder and rape. Most of those facing trial are from the Islamist party, Jamaat-e-Islami. All of them deny the allegations, accusing the government of carrying out a vendetta. The tribunal in Dhaka will reconvene on 18 August following a request by defence lawyers, who wanted more time to go through the charges. East Pakistan became Bangladesh 40 years ago - but only after a bloody battle for independence. Official figures estimate that more than three million people were killed and thousands of women raped when West Pakistan sent in its army to intervene. Last year, the Bangladeshi government set up the International Crimes Tribunal in Dhaka to try those Bangladeshis accused of collaborating with Pakistani forces and committing atrocities. So far, seven people - two from the main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party and five from the Jamaat-e-Islami - have been arrested. Formal charges are yet to be brought against them and all of them deny the charges. The two parties have denounced the tribunal as a political show trial. The New York-based Human Rights Watch says the tribunal needs to change some of its procedures to ensure a fair trial which meets international standards. The trial - when it finally starts - is likely to go on for months and open up old wounds.
AirAsia and its rival Malaysian Airline System (MAS) have agreed a deal to swap shares in a bid to boost growth. Tune Air, the parent company of AirAsia, will exchange 10% of AirAsia shares for 20.5% of MAS stocks with the state-owned firm Khazanah Nasional. The two carriers said they will co-operate in areas such as purchasing planes and opening new routes. MAS will also convert its low-cost FireFly brand to a full-service airline to avoid competition with AirAsia. "Why do we do this? I think it will help us make a lot of money," said Tony Fernandes, the chief executive of AirAsia. The two carriers have been competing against each other for past decade. However, their fortunes have taken completely different paths. While Malaysian Airlines has gone through some tough times, AirAsia has grown robustly to become the biggest low-cost carrier in Asia. Analysts say the rise of AirAsia has intensified the two carriers'  competition and rivalry. "Malaysian airlines decided that they want to take on AirAsia directly on routes where the later flies," said Siva Govindasamy of Flight Global. "That effectively meant price competition, which is not good for business." Mr Govindasamy said the deal will reduce direct competition, helping both airlines to concentrate on their area of specialisation. His views were echoed by Juliana Ramli of HwangDBS Vickers Research who added "the deal could help reposition and turn around MAS as a premier long-haul carrier."
Venezuelan prosecutors have charged two former prison governors and a soldier with corruption, following June's riot that killed 22 people at their prison. They were also charged with facilitating the trafficking of arms and drugs and associating with criminals in El Rodeo jail. The riot at the jail, outside Caracas, began after a fight between rival inmate gangs of prisoners. National Guards were then sent to search the jail for drugs and guns. But one group of heavily armed prisoners refused to surrender, leading to a stand-off which went on for almost a month. The former governor of one half of the El Rodeo prison was arrested alongside the deputy governor of the other section of the jail and a captain of the National Guard who worked at the prison in late June. In a statement, the public prosecutors' office said the three had been charged with corruption and have been remanded in custody to await trial. In response to the events at El Rodeo, President Hugo Chavez created a new prisons ministry, which recently announced plans to release almost half the country's inmates in order to ease overcrowding. Venezuela's prisons house more than twice the number of inmates they were originally designed for and violence amongst prisoners is commonplace.
A US drone attack has killed at least 21 militants in north-western Pakistan, local intelligence officials said. The drone fired two missiles, destroying a vehicle and a compound near Miranshah town in North Waziristan tribal district, on the Afghan border. The dead militants include some foreigners and are believed to be part of the Haqqani network, officials say. The group is believed to be behind a number of attacks against US troops in Afghanistan. North and South Waziristan are regularly targeted by drone missiles. The US says the region provides sanctuary to al-Qaeda and Taliban insurgents who are involved in attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan. "The dead included local Taliban as well as some Arabs and Uzbek nationals," news agency Reuters quoted an unnamed intelligence official in North Waziristan as saying. Initial reports said four to five militants were killed, but officials later said the toll had gone up after more bodies were pulled out from the rubble. The attack on Wednesday morning was one of the biggest in recent weeks. Last month, drone strikes killed at least 30 people in less than 24 hours in the area. Drone attacks have escalated in the region since President Barack Obama took office in 2008. More than 100 raids were reported in the area last year. The US does not routinely confirm drone operations, but analysts say only American forces have the capacity to deploy such aircraft in the region. Pakistan publicly criticises drone attacks, saying they fuel support for militants. But observers say the authorities privately condone the strikes, although there have been recent signs that they want to limit the scope of such attacks. A number of militants, some of them senior, have been killed in the raids, but many civilians have also died.
The company brought in to oversee the contractor's work on Cambridgeshire's guided busway has charged the county council almost £10m for its services. Engineering company Atkins was expected to charge the council £2.9m. However, contractor BAM Nuttall handed over the busway more than two years later than planned and Atkins' charges have continued to mount up. The council says the costs will be "offset" against fines imposed on BAM Nuttall for late delivery. The company has been fined £10.8m for failing to complete the busway in time for its planned opening in spring 2009, and failing to meet further deadlines. Bob Menzies, head of busway delivery at the council, said: "BAM Nuttall finally delivered the scheme two years late and now dispute they should be liable for the overspend as set out in the contract. "The council has no choice but to bring in extra resources to manage the contract and make sure that BAM Nuttall's claims are properly assessed. "To make sure best value is delivered for Cambridgeshire taxpayers in the long run, the council must take the correct advice, which comes at a cost." A spokesperson for BAM Nuttall said it was "unable to make a comment due to contractual reasons". Atkins did not wish to make a comment.
A wedding themed on the Titanic might not be thought to be the best of omens for the future, but Northern Ireland tourism chiefs are hoping plenty of young couples will think otherwise. The Titanic Suite of Belfast's new Â£97m visitor attraction dedicated to the doomed liner has started taking bookings ahead of its opening next year. The visitor attraction, which is due to open in eight months, is in the same spot where the famous ship was built by Harland and Wolff 100 years ago. From its windows visitors will look down on the drawing office, the dry dock and and the slipway, while the scale of the building will mimic the actual size of the ship. The fifth and sixth floors of the centre replicate the opulent surrounds of the ship's first class banqueting room, complete with the famous sweeping grand staircase. It has been proclaimed as the largest function area in the region, with space for up to 1,000 guests. Tourism chiefs hope the venue will host all manner of private events. Claire Bradshaw, Titanic Belfast's head of sales and marketing, said: "Given the Titanic link, our aim is to create Belfast's most stylish venue, complete with the highest standards of catering and service." Susie McCullough, Northern Ireland Tourist Board director, added: "This venue, with the Titanic-themed decor and capacity to accommodate such a large number of visitors, is one of its kind in Northern Ireland. "And whilst conference and banqueting facilities are vital elements of the business tourism product, the added value is the opportunity to explore more of Northern Ireland's maritime and shipbuilding heritage which is right on their doorstep."
A paraplegic microlight pilot from West Yorkshire has reached Australia after a three-month solo flight from England. Dave Sykes, from Dewsbury, has landed at Truscott on Australia's north west coast 103 days after leaving Yorkshire. Mr Sykes, who broke his back in a motorbike accident in 1993, is thought to be the first paraplegic to fly from England to Australia in a microlight. Mr Sykes, 43, used the 12,000 mile journey to help raise money for the Yorkshire Air Ambulance. Speaking to ABC News in Darwin, Mr Sykes said it had not been an easy journey. "It's been really difficult at times with the bad weather, permissions holding me up and things going wrong with the aircraft," he said. In November 1993, a motorbike accident left Mr Sykes with a broken back, clavicle and thigh bone, together with broken ribs and punctured lungs. However, he was released from hospital in May 1994 after doctors had said he would remain there for at least two years. Mr Sykes took up microlighting in 2000 and gained his pilot's licence in 2001. He said: "I started flying 10 years ago and saw a video of a guy who flew around the world. "I've always wanted to do something similar so I decided on Australia because I couldn't afford to fly around the world." Mr Sykes now plans to fly to Sydney in his microlight.
Arsenal have completed the signing of teenage Costa Rican forward Joel Campbell from Deportivo Saprissa. The 19-year-old has signed a "long-term contract" to move from his homeland for an undisclosed fee. Campbell scored for Costa Rica against Bolivia in this summer's Copa America and has six international caps. "It is a dream come true to play for such a big club in England and I want to do well for myself and Costa Rica," Campbell said. "I am ready, I am very happy to be here and I want to focus on doing well for Arsenal. "I'm good in one-on-ones and I am a player who knows how to score goals. I play forward and I can play on both sides. "Arsene Wenger is a manager of immense quality. I took this decision because I know I have a possibility to become a better player here." Arsenal announced they were close to signing Campbell on 12 August. Speaking at that time, Wenger said: "[He] has shown that he is a player with great ability, and has performed well on the international stage at a young age. "We look forward to the formalities of the transfer being completed and working with Joel when he joins us at Arsenal."
Reported sightings of leatherback turtles are increasing off Wales, with the reptiles thought to be drawn by high numbers of jellyfish. Three sightings have been reported in recent days, in Laugharne, Carmarthenshire, north Pembrokeshire and Anglesey. Dr Peter Richardson, of the Marine Conservation Society (MCS), said Wales' waters were currently "turtle heaven". The turtles nest in the Caribbean before travelling to UK waters to feed. Dr Richardson said there had been high numbers of jellyfish - the food source of the leatherback - reported in the Irish Sea this year. He added: "The waters around Wales are absolutely perfect at the moment for turtles - turtle heaven." "What we have seen in the last few weeks is a sudden increase in the number of leatherbacks reported off the coast of the UK, mostly the south west, but in the last few days we have had three reports of leatherbacks off Wales." Describing the leatherback as a "spectacular animal," he added: "Wales boasts the largest leatherback ever recorded anywhere on the planet. "In 1988, a dead one washed up at Harlech... and it measured just under 3m (10ft), nose to tail, and weighed just under a tonne." In 2002 and 2005 there were about 70 sightings of leatherback turtles around the British coast, but since 2007 there have been 20 or fewer reported annually, according to the MCS.
Services on the Woolwich ferry have been suspended to allow staff to attend the funeral of a teenage colleague who died after falling off a boat. Ben Woollacott, 19, died after falling off a ferry on 3 August and is thought to have been hit by the propellers. The free two-boat service between Woolwich and North Woolwich will resume from 06:10 BST on Tuesday. Sightseeing river tours by Thames River Services and Crown River Cruises were also suspended for the day. The funeral of the teenager took place at All Hallows Church near the Tower of London. The family of Mr Woollacott, of Swanley, Kent, had worked as Thames boatmen for five generations. It is believed he fell while mooring ropes were being untied, London Coastguard said. Andrew White, chief executive for Serco's Marine business - which runs the ferry service, described the fatal incident as a "tragic accident". "Ben was a valued colleague and friend and, having completed his apprenticeship at the Woolwich Ferry, was looking forward to continuing the family tradition of working on the River Thames. "His presence at Woolwich Ferry will be missed by all, not only because of his natural ability but also his colourful and friendly nature." James Buckingham, an apprentice, who was a close friend of Mr Woollacott, said: "He loved a laugh and a joke with everyone. "If you went to work down in the dumps you could guarantee after working with him you would go home with a smile on your face."
A potential witness in the case of a man who was fatally injured during the London riots has come forward, police have said. Detectives believe the man may have seen what happened to Richard Bowes who was attacked as he tried to stamp out a fire in Ealing, west London, on Monday. The 68-year-old local man died from head injuries three days later. A boy, 16, has been arrested on suspicion of Mr Bowes' murder. A 22-year-old man has been bailed. The 22-year-old, who was held on suspicion of murder, was also questioned on suspicion of rioting and burglary while the boy is also being held on suspicion of burglary. A 31-year-old woman is being held on suspicion of perverting the course of justice. In a direct witness appeal on Wednesday, the Metropolitan Police asked a person captured in a CCTV image to contact them. Mr Bowes, of Haven Green, Ealing, is thought to have been attacked after confronting teenagers setting fire to two industrial bins in Spring Bridge Road. A witness said rioters attacked the pensioner when he tried to put out a fire started in a supermarket bin near the Arcadia shopping centre. Detectives investigating his death have urged anyone with footage of the area at the time of the attack to contact them. Meanwhile the Richard Mannington Bowes Relief Fund has been set up to help people living in the area who were affected by the riots.
A BBC journalist who was held for a month by the authorities in Tajikistan has been put on trial in Khujand city. Urunboy Usmonov, 59, was arrested in June and accused of associating with banned Islamist group Hizb ut-Tahrir. He has repeatedly denied the charges, saying his only contact with the group was to interview some members as part of his work reporting on the region. The BBC has insisted throughout that it regards the allegations as completely unfounded. The corporation has said that it believes meetings and interviews with people representing all shades of opinion are part of the work of any BBC journalist. Mr Usmonov's lawyer told the BBC the trial had been opened and adjourned until Thursday, when the court will begin to hear witnesses. There are four other defendants accused of extremism who are being tried together with Mr Usmonov, who remains on bail. The other four appeared in a cage in the courtroom, his lawyer said, but Mr Usmonov did not. He said the other defendants partially admitted guilt, while Mr Usmonov reaffirmed his complete innocence. Three journalists were allowed at the hearing, which is taking place in a detention centre rather than a regular courtroom. Mr Usmonov has worked for the BBC Central Asian Service for 10 years. He has said that he met Hizb ut-Tahrir members as part of his work reporting on the group, which is active across Central Asia. Mr Usmonov's detention provoked an international outcry. Rights groups and foreign diplomats condemned his arrest as an attempt to clamp down on independent media and coverage of sensitive political and religious issues.
The parents of a man stabbed to death in Portadown at the weekend have said those who use knives should be shown the effects of their actions. Marc Williamson, 21, from the Richhill area, was stabbed in Hartfield Avenue on Sunday morning. His parents, Barbara and Cecil Williamson, were speaking after seeing their son's body in a morgue. Three men, aged 28, 26 and 24, have been arrested in connection with the murder. Police have been granted an extra 36 hours to question the 26-year-old and the others remain in custody. Mr and Mrs Williamson said the impact of their son's killing was "unbearable" and described it as "senseless". They made a general appeal for people to stop carrying knives. "A camera should be down in that morgue to let people that use knives see what they have done," Barbara Williamson said. "Marc has a wee girl who is seven months old and he loved that child, she was his pride and joy. "He will never get to see her growing up. "I wouldn't like any other parent to see what we have gone through. "We don't know what our future is going to be now. I have three other sons and they are devastated." The couple said they sympathised with the parents of their son's killers and said they held no anger towards them. "I am sure they are sitting there devastated today as well," Mrs Williamson added.
The company behind a proposed large-scale pig farm in Derbyshire has hit out at "misleading" claims surrounding its plans. A demonstration was held at the weekend by animal rights campaigners in Derby over the planned facility near Foston. Midlands Pig Producers (MPP) said allegations its pigs would be kept in cramped conditions were untrue. The farm would hold 2,500 sows and 20,000 piglets and use biogas from the slurry to produce electricity. MPP has finished giving extra information to Derbyshire County Council as part of the planning process. It said it had addressed concerns about animal welfare and emissions. A company spokesman said: "We are astonished at some of the highly misleading claims and accusations. "Claims that pigs will be crammed into narrow crates are simply not true. "Our acclaimed 360 Farrowers were named because the sow can turn around 360 degrees at will. "We urge people to either contact us, or refer to the planning application so that they may ascertain the facts of the matter for themselves." About 100 animal rights protesters marched through Derby on Saturday claiming the large-scale development would be cruel to pigs. Critics said that the only time the pigs would see the outside world would be on their way to slaughter. It has also been claimed the site could put small-scale farmers in the area out of business. MPP said the farm would observe the highest welfare standards and pointed out there was already a unit in the UK containing 3,500 sows. South Derbyshire District Council handed over duties for dealing with the application to the county council because of its waste implications. If planning permission is given, construction on the farm will take about a year.
An exchange student from Japan is presumed dead after being swept over Niagara Falls on Sunday night, authorities say. The woman, in her 20s, who was studying in Toronto, climbed on to a pillar overlooking the Canadian side of the falls and slipped over, police said. She then fell into the Niagara River about 80ft (24m) up from the edge of the falls and was swept over. The Niagara Parks Police described the death as a tragic accident. As of Monday morning, the woman's body had not been recovered. Officials said they were working with the Japanese consulate to notify her family. "The public is reminded that climbing over this wall is clearly dangerous and is prohibited by the Niagara Parks Act and its regulations," Niagara Parks Police Chief Doug Kane warned. "Millions of visitors have viewed the scenic Niagara falls and the Niagara River gorge while respecting the safety wall without incident." The accident, which occurred about 20:30 local time (00:30 GMT) on Sunday at Table Rock near the Horseshoe Falls on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls, was captured on CCTV. The woman, who was visiting with a friend, had been taking a photograph, then climbed on to a pillar holding an umbrella before standing up for a clearer view, police said. She lost her footing as she tried to climb down from a block pillar and tumbled into the fast-moving river, police said. Earlier reports said only that the woman was visiting from Toronto but did not specify she was Japanese. While the woman's body had yet to be found on Monday, searchers did turn up an unidentified male body at the base of the falls. Local authorities were working to identify that corpse, police said.
Shares in Asian makers of Android mobile phones have risen, after Google said it would buy Motorola's handset business for $12.5bn (Â£7.7bn). The agreement is expected to give the likes of HTC and Samsung Electronics a greater degree of protection against possible patent disputes. Shares in Samsung rose more than 4%, while HTC shares were 2% higher on Tuesday. Google is the primary developer of the Android software for mobile devices. However, because many companies own related patents, the internet giant is open to being sued by rivals. Its purchase of Motorola Mobility gives Google ownership of 17,000 mobile patents, with thousands more pending. That means mobile phone makers that license Android software may now receive more protection against future patent lawsuits. "We welcome the news of today's acquisition, which demonstrates that Google is deeply committed to defending Android, its partners, and the entire ecosystem," HTC chief executive Peter Chou said in a statement. Besides HTC and Samsung, other companies that use the software include Sony Ericsson and LG Electronics. So-called contract equipment manufacturers, which make phones for brands other than its own, also received a boost from the Google deal. Shares in Taiwan's Foxconn rose by more than 14% while Compal Communications jumped by more than 7%.
There are hundreds of publications and scores of radio and TV stations. But political and security crises have resulted in an increasingly fractured media scene. Television is the main medium for news. Many media outlets have political or religious affiliations. For private media, advertising revenues seldom provide a reliable income. The Iraqi Media Network (IMN) is a government holding company for outlets including Al-Iraqiya TV and Republic of Iraq Radio. The autonomous Kurdistan region has its own established media. Freedom of expression is protected by the constitution. But Reporters Without Borders says armed groups "have no compunction" about killing media workers. Jihadist group Islamic State has been systematically persecuting news media and their employees since the start of its offensive in Iraq, says Reporters Without Borders. IS aims to "monopolise media activity in the territory it conquers. It does not permit the free flow of news and information and only the most courageous journalists dare to transmit or share information." Foreign broadcasters targeting Iraqi audiences include the BBC, Paris-based Monte Carlo Doualiya radio, and US-backed Al-Hurra TV, Radio Sawa and Radio Free Iraq. Many of them are available via local relays. BBC World Service radio is on the air in Baghdad (89, 96.9 FM) and Basra (88, 90 FM). Almost all homes have a satellite dish and there are dozens of Iraq-focused satellite TV networks. Iraq's internet development lags behind that in other Arab states. There were 4.9 million users by 2016, around 13% of the population (Internetlivestats.com). The most popular social media platforms are Facebook and WhatsApp.
Police officers in Ecuador will be made to take lie detector tests in an effort to root out corruption in the force, the country's police chief has said. Gen Wilson Alulema said he wanted all 42,000 officers to take the test. Under new anti-corruption efforts, officers will also have to declare their assets so investigators can spot illicit payments more easily. President Rafael Correa ordered a modernisation of the force after a police mutiny last September. Thousands of police demonstrated against cuts to their benefits as part of a government austerity drive. The protests turned violent and President Correa had to be rescued by the military after being tear-gassed and held for several hours in a hospital. He described the events as an attempted coup and vowed to purge the police. Since then, his administration has taken administrative control of the force. Gen Alulema said he hoped the government would give senior police officers the power to sack those linked to corruption. The general complained that 300 agents who had been suspended from their duties over corruption allegations had been re-instated by judges, who argued there had been judicial irregularities. "Those judges don't understand the gravity of their decisions," Gen Alulema said. He also announced that incentives would be offered to officers who denounce corrupt colleagues.
US concerts by Janet Jackson and Lady Antebellum have been cancelled following a stage collapse that killed five people in Indiana at the weekend. Jackson had been due to perform at the state fair on Wednesday while the country group were set for Friday. Organisers said a Maroon 5 and Train show planned for Thursday will now move to the nearby Conseco Fieldhouse, with proceeds going to a remembrance fund. The stage collapsed on Saturday after strong winds blew its rigging over. About 45 other people were injured while 12,000 concert-goers awaited the start of a concert by country group Sugarland. Investigators have put incident down to unforeseeable and isolated high winds, but have launched a further inquiry. On their website, Lady Antebellum said it had been a "difficult decision" to cancel their show. The group tweeted: "We're so sorry to cancel this Friday's show, our thoughts are with Indy." Jackson also wrote on Twitter : "Heartbroken. Prayers and love to Indiana." Organisers said tickets previously purchased for the Maroon 5 and Train show will be honoured at the new venue where a number of stage, security and restaurant staff are volunteering to make the concert possible. All proceeds will benefit the Indiana State Fair Remembrance Fund. The fair reopened on Monday with a memorial service to honour the victims of the collapse.
Sweden's Crown Princess Victoria and her husband, Prince Daniel, are expecting a baby in March next year, the royal court has announced. "The whole royal family are thrilled and the Crown Princess is doing well," royal spokeswoman Annika Soennerberg told AFP news agency. The princess married Daniel Westling, 37 - her long-time partner and former fitness instructor - in June last year. Sweden's heiress-apparent, 34, is extremely popular in Sweden. Several recent surveys suggest a majority of Swedes would like to see her father King Carl XVI Gustaf - who has been embroiled in multiple scandals over alleged affairs and wild parties - abdicate in favour of his daughter. The country's tabloids immediately went into a frenzy over the news, reports said. On its website, the royal court said there was no need at present for the princess to alter her official schedule for 2011 due to her pregnancy. "It is with great joy that I receive the news that the Crown Princess and Prince Daniel are expecting a child," Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in a statement. "You have a fantastic experience to look forward to and I want to send you both my most heartfelt congratulations." The new baby, who will be the king and queen's first grandchild, will be second in line to the throne. Victoria became the first in line to the throne in 1980, with a legal change that introduced equal primogeniture.
Stroke victims in the South West are having to wait for much longer than the national average before being seen by specialist staff, it is claimed. Patients in Derriford Hospital in Plymouth waited up to 41 hours before being seen by specialist staff. Figures from the Royal College of Physicians also show that between April and June, many patients waited more than nine hours before being scanned. These figures are much higher than average. Some stroke patients arriving at the Royal Cornwall Hospital, waited up to 19 hours before being seen by specialist stroke staff. The national average was just over three-and-a-half hours. It was a similar story for stroke patients needing a specialist bed at the hospital in Truro. Out of hours, some of them waited 24 hours while nationally the wait was only four hours. In a statement Dr Steven Allder, Assistant Medical Director at Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, said: "With respect to the immediate care of patients, all patients bought in to Derriford suspected of having a stroke come to one central point in the hospital. One hundred per cent of patients are assessed for clot-busting drugs and brain scanning. "The patients are then reviewed again, 70% of those will be transferred directly to our Acute Stroke Unit, 100% will be transferred to the unit within 24 hours depending on their other clinical needs." Jo Gibbs, chief operating officer at the Royal Cornwall Hospital, said: "They are getting their diagnosis very rapidly. Sometimes the patients aren't always getting to the stroke unit and that is what we're working on. "I wouldn't want the impression to be those patients are left in the department inappropriately or not getting specialist care. That's absolutely not the case."
A 24-year-old man has appeared in court charged with raping a man. The accused, who cannot be named because of reporting restrictions, was arrested in England on Tuesday. The charges relate to incidents which allegedly took place in hotels, a hostel and private addresses in Belfast between January and July of this year. The accused faces four charges in total, including assault and false imprisonment. District Judge Fiona Bagnall granted temporary reporting restrictions because of "real and genuine" concerns for the safety of the accused. However, he was refused bail and remanded in custody. The case will be heard at Belfast Magistrates' Court again next week. The accused's solicitor Seamus Leonard challenged an expert medical report which suggested consent may not have been given. He told the court his client gave police a detailed account of his relationship with the alleged victim. "This case stands or falls on the issue of consent," Mr Leonard said. "He (the accused) has made a very clear case there was nothing in any of this that indicated a lack of consent." A detective constable, who connected the accused to the charges, opposed bail due to a fear of potential re-offending. Mr Leonard sought the reporting restrictions by claiming the administration of justice might be prejudiced if his client's name was disclosed. The lawyer added: "His human rights are engaged at this stage." Judge Bagnall agreed to a temporary prohibition, but ordered further submissions be prepared on why the ban should remain in place long-term.
A councillor in Kent has been suspended from the Conservative Party while it investigates an apparently racist comment he made on Facebook. Dover District Councillor Bob Frost appeared to make comments about black people during an online conversation about the recent riots. Mr Frost, a teacher, has apologised "unreservedly" and deleted the posts. Deputy Council Leader Sue Chandler said: "There is no place in our society for this kind of language." She added: "We have therefore suspended Councillor Frost from the Conservative Group pending investigation." The comment was made while Mr Frost was having a conversation on the social-networking site, alluding to the London riots while he was on holiday. On his status he wrote: "I'm missing the vibrant and multi-cultural society which I normally celebrate here in Sicily! Not!" It was then suggested by someone else on Facebook that he take a trip to north London. He replied: "All the bunnies here are of the woodland variety rather than the jungle." Sola Afuape, chair of the equality charity Afiya Trust, said: "You don't expect somebody in a position of power, in a leadership position, to make comments like this. "They're clearly offensive - racist in fact." In a statement, Mr Frost said: "What I said was wrong and I apologise unreservedly. "I am mortified by the offence that I have caused and have deleted these comments. "I am very sorry."
London mayoral candidate Ken Livingstone has compared his battle to regain City Hall from Boris Johnson with the "great struggle between Churchill and Hitler". Mr Livingstone's comments feature in Total Politics magazine. Croydon Tory MP Gavin Barwell said: "Comparing rival politicians to Hitler is in incredibly poor taste." But Mr Livingstone's aides said his comments were "light-hearted".  City Hall declined to comment. In comments, reported in the latest issue of the magazine, the former London Labour mayor said next year's mayoral race was "a simple choice between good and evil - I don't think it's been so clear since the great struggle between Churchill and Hitler." "The people that don't vote for me will be weighed in the balance, come Judgment Day," he continued. "The Archangel Gabriel will say 'You didn't vote for Ken Livingstone in 2012. "Oh dear, burn forever. Your skin flayed for all eternity.'" Mr Livingstone added he would "come round with a serious pitch nearer the time". However, Mr Barwell, MP for Croydon Central, said: "After the events of the last week, Londoners need a mayor who will unite our city, not one who regards people who don't share his views, as evil. "To joke that Londoners who don't vote for him will 'burn forever' after everything we have been through in the past two weeks is crass even by Ken Livingstone's standards."
Six years after a man from south Cheshire went missing on holiday in Crete, police have released an image of how he might look now. Steven Cook, from Sandbach, was 20 when he was last seen outside a pub in Malia asking for directions to his hotel. Greek police have failed to find any concrete leads in their investigation into why he went missing in 2005. His father Norman said posters with the new image would be circulated around the island. Cheshire Police used photographs of different members of Steven's family when they were in their 20s to help construct the enhanced image. Norman said that his family had never given up hope of finding Steven. "It takes over your whole life. For the last five or six years we've led an unreal life. "Every day, several times a day, either myself or members of my family are looking to see if any bit of information has come through on the internet and emails. "We always look positively at what we can do. That way, it gets you through the dark days." The image has now been posted on the Find Steven Cook website and anyone with any information in regard to Steven's disappearance - his whereabouts or his movements since 2005 - is asked to contact Cheshire Police.
The boom in foreign players at Premier League teams is being matched by interest from overseas football fans, says tourist authority Visit Britain. It says that 750,000 visitors who came to the UK last year experienced a football game, spending Â£595m in total, or the equivalent of Â£776 per fan. The most popular stadiums for overseas visitors were those of Manchester United, Liverpool, and Manchester City. The biggest number of football visitors were from Ireland, Norway and the US. Other countries whose residents showed a passion for English football were Germany, Holland, Japan, China, Australia, and the United Arab Emirates. Popular clubs for overseas visitors also included Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur, while many people also made a visit to Wembley Stadium. The greatest proportion of inbound visitors going to a football match was between January and March. "Not only do some of the best players in the world want to play in Britain, but their international fans want to follow them here to savour the atmosphere of a match," said Patricia Yates of Visit Britain. Visit Britain introduced a Premier League section on its website earlier this year. Its football visitor report was based on a question it sponsored on the 2010 Office for National Statistics International Passenger Survey - a survey of passengers entering and leaving the UK.
The Highways Agency is warning motorists about M1 slip road closures in Bedfordshire. The motorway's southbound entry slip road and northbound exit slip road at Junction 12 will be closed from 06:00 BST on Saturday until 05:00 BST on Monday. The closures are required to allow work to replace a gas main to take place. Project manager Lynne Stinson said drivers should allow extra time for their journeys. "We have worked with National Grid to minimise the impact and duration of the closures on road users and the local community. "We do not expect a significant impact on traffic, however we would advise road users to plan their journeys, allow extra time and follow the clearly signed diversion routes," said Ms Stinson. During the closures, northbound traffic will be directed along the M1 northbound to Junction 13, and back on the southbound carriageway to exit the M1 on the Junction 12 southbound exit slip-road. Southbound road users wishing to join the M1 at Junction 12 will be signposted northbound to Junction 13, and back on to the M1 southbound. A further closure will take place from 06:00 BST on Saturday 3 September to 05:00 BST on Monday 5 September. The August Bank Holiday weekend will not be affected.
Actress Dame Eileen Atkins has decided not to appear in the next series of Upstairs Downstairs, the TV period drama she helped to create. Dame Eileen conceived the idea for the original series, which ran from 1971-75, with fellow actress Jean Marsh. She did not appear in the original, but was in the cast when the BBC revived the show for a new version last year. However Dame Eileen, who played Lady Holland, is reportedly unhappy with the direction the new scripts are taking. A BBC statement said: "It's with much sadness that we say goodbye to her wonderful character, the straight speaking mother-in-law Lady Holland. "However, we respect her decision and we will be announcing new star casting soon." The show follows the intertwined fortunes of a diplomat's family and their servants in a grand London townhouse. The next six episodes will start filming in October and are due to be broadcast next year. Marsh is the only person who appeared in both the original and the revived versions. She was joined in last year's series by Keeley Hawes, Ed Stoppard and Claire Foy. When the new series was announced, writer Heidi Thomas said: "The Holland family and their servants are set for an extraordinary year and I am thrilled to be their guardian."
England's last inland funicular railway has been sold for more than £700,000. Bridgnorth Cliff Railway in Shropshire has been bought by Suffolk-based property developers Devitt and Sons. The family firm said it was not intending to make big changes and that it would be "business as usual". The cliff railway, which was built in 1892, has been owned and operated by Allan and Jean Reynolds for the last 15 years. One of the new owners Malvern Tipping said: "My family are immensely excited about our involvement in this historical railway. "We are very much looking forward to continuing this great service and tradition both for Bridgnorth and the many visitors." Mr and Mrs Reynolds put the railway, incorporating Grade II listed buildings at the top and bottom of the cliff, on the market in March. Jonathan Bengough, of agents Knight Frank, said: "The railway was sold after an unprecedented amount of interested was shown from right across the UK." The railway transports people up and down the town's 111ft (33.8m) sandstone cliffs. Two cars on parallel tracks, connected by steel ropes, counterbalance each other - as one rises to the top station, the other runs to the bottom station between High Town and Low Town. The cars are now powered by an electric winding engine, but were originally driven by a system of water balance. Mrs Reynolds, who is retiring with her husband, said at the height of the tourist season the railway made 200 journeys a day and carried 2,000 people, who pay £1 for a return ticket. There are thought to be about 15 working seaside funicular railways left in England.
Outbreaks of heavy rain are expected to continue into the afternoon across London, the Met Office has said. On Monday it issued a severe weather warning, predicting torrential rain on Tuesday morning and warning of a risk of localised flooding. Although there were some heavy and at times thundery showers, the predicted torrential downpour did not occur. Some parts of London had between 5mm to 10mm of rain in a few hours, while other areas saw moderate to light rain. Passengers travelling on Eurostar have been facing delays of up to 30 minutes due to signalling problems in France and Belgium caused by the bad weather there. The Met Office website said there was still a risk of "surface water flooding", but showers will ease later. "A yellow alert has been issued to highlight the risk of localised surface-water flooding," a spokeswoman said earlier on Tuesday morning. On Monday evening, the Met Office had predicted that heavy rain "will start from about midnight and there will also be a lot of lightning". The Environment Agency also said there was a risk of flooding in southern and eastern England and the London Fire Brigade said it was on stand-by to help anyone hit by flooding following the Met Office warnings.
A limited state of emergency is in force in several areas of Trinidad, as the government moves to tackle a recent spike in violent crime. The measures, announced on Sunday by Trinidad and Tobago Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar, include an overnight curfew. She said they were targeting what she called "hot spots" as part of efforts to tackle "wanton acts of lawlessness". The opposition said it was a "panic response" by the government. The declaration of emergency rule in six areas in Trinidad, which will last 15 days, came after the country saw 11 murders in just a couple of days. Ms Persad-Bissessar said the killings were a reaction by drug gangs to recent major seizures by the police of consignments worth millions of dollars. "These large sums of money simply do not disappear from the drug trade without consequences," she said. The aim of emergency rule was to halt the current spike in gang activity and crime in general in the shortest possible time, the prime minister said in a televised address. "The nation will not be held to ransom by marauding gangs of thugs bent on creating havoc on our society. The limited state of emergency in hot spots across Trinidad and Tobago is merely part of a larger aggressive reaction response by the government." The measures include a 21:00 to 05:00 overnight curfew, as well as increased powers for police to conduct searches and make arrests. Opposition leader Keith Rowley said the measure showed that the government had no plans to deal with rising crime. "Our initial thought is that this is a panic response which has not been the product of any serious deliberations," he told local radio. The measures took effect after being approved by President George Maxwell Richards..
A researcher plans to visit Guernsey as part of work to see if the island's system of government could be adapted to work in Cornwall. Jane Howells has been commissioned by Cornwall councillor, Bert Biscoe, and will be meeting Guernsey politicians and lawmakers in September. Mrs Howells said: "It's obviously self-contained governance and seems to work extremely well. "We hope our research will find out if anything can be applied to Cornwall." The research comes while the UK government's localism bill is being prepared, which will allow governance to be adapted more specifically to the areas in which they operate. Mrs Howells said: "In Guernsey this is something you've really been working at, developed your laws and enhanced your laws over centuries now. "We want to see how it works in Guernsey and what elements could be adapted in Cornwall, what we can learn about how you approach things in a slightly less complex way." Asked if people in the county wanted more autonomy she said: "I think it's necessary and Cornwall is ready for that, very few decisions are actually made in Cornwall at the moment and there's a general feeling that we do need to be making our decisions rather more. "We are so specific here, which is why we do want to look into somewhere like Guernsey that really does, and has been doing for centuries, work in a way that benefits its population." The former Cornwall county council commissioned a Mori poll in 2003 which showed 55% of Cornish people were in favour of a democratically-elected, fully devolved regional assembly for Cornwall.
Hollywood star Angelina Jolie has used her time in Scotland to visit the global headquarters of a charity which specialises in landmine removal. She is visiting the country with her partner Brad Pitt as he shoots the film World War Z in various locations. The pair are long-standing supporters of the Halo Trust's work. Jolie took the opportunity to visit the trust's headquarters in Thornhill, Dumfriesshire, on Saturday for the first time. She was given a briefing by senior Halo staff on the current landmine problem and heard about the kind of work they are doing. She said: "It was a privilege to visit the Halo headquarters and meet their committed staff. "In the aftermath of war, Halo's mine-clearing efforts are fundamental to a safe return and community building." The Jolie-Pitt Foundation has provided "hundreds of thousands of pounds" worth of financial support to Halo, funding humanitarian mine clearance teams in Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Kosovo and Afghanistan. Guy Willoughby, co-founder and director of the trust, said: "It was a great opportunity for us to talk through the projects and also plan our demining priorities for the future - identifying which communities in different countries are most in need of our support." Halo is one of the world's oldest and largest humanitarian landmine clearance organisations and tackles the problem of landmines and other explosive remnants of war. Other celebrity supporters have included Prince Harry and his late mother Diana, Princess of Wales.
Israel's press and broadcasters are many and varied, and account for differences in language, political viewpoint and religious outlook. The Israel Broadcasting Authority (IBA), set up along the lines of the BBC, operates public radio and TV services and is funded mainly by licence fees on TV sets. In March 2014, the government announced that the IBA would be shut down and replaced with a new structure for public broadcasting within a year.  The broadcast license fee will also be eliminated. Critics warn that the changes will give the government too much control over public broadcasting. Channel 2 and Israel 10 are the main commercial TV networks. Most Israeli households subscribe to cable or satellite packages. HOT cable and YES satellite TV are the main multichannel providers. Commercial radio arrived in 1995, but faces competition from unlicensed radio stations, some of which carry ultra-Orthodox programming. Israel has 13 daily newspapers and at least 90 weeklies. All titles are privately-owned. Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders (2012) says media freedom is "unequalled in the region". But it adds that this is tempered by "military censorship" and "numerous abuses" by the army against media workers in the Palestinian Territories. Israel has a large IT industry and one of the world's most technologically-literate populations. Around 5.5 million people had internet access by 2013 (InternetWorldStats).
Camping equipment left behind after Leeds Festival this weekend will be salvaged for reuse by community groups and individuals. Everything is Possible is the charity responsible for collecting the unwanted equipment after the festival is over. Only equipment that is in good condition is recycled but last year the haul included more than 1,000 tents. A two-day sale then allows groups and individuals to get bargain equipment for a small donation. The charity was set up in 1999 to support excluded young people, such as the homeless and those with drug or alcohol problems. Now it helps to promote recycling during the Leeds Festival. After the three-day event 60 volunteers scour the campsite for discarded tents, sleeping bags, mats, wellingtons and camping utensils. Any salvaged, unopened food will be used by St George's Crypt in Leeds to help feed homeless and disadvantaged people. As well as the tents about 2,000 sleeping bags or mats were also recovered after 2010's festival. Raphael Harfaux, who is a coordinator for the charity, said: "Some people buy a tent just for the festival and then leave it all there. "A lot of organisations need these tents for their activities." Local community groups can apply to the charity to join with the salvage operation at Bramham Park and filling their vehicle with recycled equipment. The remainder of the equipment is then available for sale on Tuesday and Wednesday in Leeds. For the first time this year individuals are also invited to pick up bargain camping gear during the Wednesday sale.
HP's discontinued tablet computer, the Touchpad, has briefly become the UK's most wanted gadget. Many retailers have slashed prices on the device - some as low as £89 - after the company announced it would stop producing them. The Touchpad was launched less than two months ago, with models starting at £399. HP has said it is looking at ways to continue development apps for its WebOS platform which the Touchpad runs. Online retailer Dabs.com sold its stock of 500 Touchpads in just 15 minutes. Dixons retail, which owns PC World, Currys and Dixons.com, described demand as "unprecedented". Similar discounts began to appear in the United States over the weekend. It is understood that HP contacted UK retailers on Monday evening to notify them of a drastic reduction in the wholesale price. However, some sellers were clearly hoping to make a higher margin. On Tuesday afternoon, resellers on Amazon.co.uk were selling the 16GB model for £250, with the 32GB model priced at £279. Tesco direct was selling the 16GB model at £349. Despite the fire sale prices, it is unclear how much support Touchpad users will receive in future. HP has promised to honour product warranties. It also suggested that the operating system will receive some ongoing attention. In a statement, the company said: "We expect that HP TouchPad owners can look forward to an over-the-air update that will enhance the platform and add functionality and a growing applications catalogue." However, it seems unlikely that there will be much incentive for developers to continue creating applications for WebOS, given the limited number of devices that run it, and the fact that no more are likely to appear. Some hardware hackers are already competing to be the first to put Google's Android operating system on the Touchpad.
Gaming and games consoles are a huge business, making console and games producers millions every year. So who are the industry's big players? The big three console companies are Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo. Microsoft are the guys behind the Xbox 360 and Kinect. The Kinect for Xbox 360 was released in 2010 and was the first modern console that allowed you to play without any controllers - you just move your body around. You can play against other gamers online using Xbox LIVE but you have to pay a membership fee. Sony make the PlayStation 3 and the handheld PlayStation Vita. PlayStation Move allows gamers to play with wireless controllers, like the Nintendo Wii. The PlayStation Network allows you to play online games, chat to friends and surf the web. The handheld PlayStation Vita has a touchscreen on the front and a touchpad controller on the back. It was released in the UK in February 2012. Rumours are now flying around the internet that the new PlayStation console, the PS4, will be called Orbis and may be released at the end of 2013. Read more: PlayStation 4 'Orbis' rumours Nintendo are the brains who brought us the Wii, the DS and the Wii U. The Wii U is Nintendo's first console to output crisp HD graphics and has a unique touchscreen controller with its own screen. Most people say that it's pretty simple to use, so it's good for gaming beginners! The 3DS was the first handheld console to let gamers play in 3D without needing to wear special glasses.
Real Madrid boss Jose Mourinho is to be investigated by the Spanish Football Federation following last week's bad-tempered Supercopa loss to Barcelona. The Portuguese coach appeared to gouge the eye of Barca assistant Tito Vilanova near the end of the match. Madrid duo Marcelo and Mezut Ozil and Barca's David Villa were sent off in the game, which the Catalan side won 3-2 to go through 5-4 on aggregate. All three players have been given suspensions by the federation. All three red cards came at the end of the game; the first to Marcelo, whose tackle on Cesc Fabregas sparked a melee that saw the other two players dismissed and Mourinho clash with Vilanova. Barcelona said on Monday that they would not be reporting Mourinho, but the Spanish Federation (RFEF) have intervened. A statement on their official website read: "We will examine the images of the behaviour of Jose Mourinho and Franciso Vilanova that could be in violation of Article 98 and/or Article 100 of the disciplinary code of the RFEF." The flashpoint was the latest in a string of unsavoury incidents between the two clubs since Mourinho took over as Madrid coach last summer. The 48-year-old double Champions League winner was constantly outspoken about Barca last season, while his side were reduced to 10 men in all but one of their five meetings throughout the campaign. He was also sent to the stands during the first leg of the two teams' Champions League semi-final, which Barca won before going on to lift the European Cup.
Wales have suffered a fresh world ranking blow after dropping five places down the latest Fifa list to 117th. Gary Speed's team have fallen below Azerbaijan, Guatemala, Guyana, Korea DPR and Haiti in the August standings. Wales were overtaken by the Faroe Islands in July and were among the sixth and last Uefa seeds for the recent World Cup draw. England climb from sixth to fourth, with Scotland in 55th and Northern Ireland in 59th place. 1  Netherlands 2  Spain 3  Germany 4  England 5  Uruguay 31  Republic of Ireland 55  Scotland 59  Northern Ireland 111 Faroe Islands 116 Haiti 117  Wales Rob Earnshaw recently challenged his Wales team-mates to prove they were better than their lowly Fifa world ranking, before Gary Speed's men lost 2-1 to Australia at the Cardiff City Stadium Wales now face a tough task to qualify for the 2014 World Cup finals in Brazil after being drawn in Group A with Scotland, Croatia, Serbia, Belgium and Macedonia, who are managed by former Wales boss John Toshack. The Republic of Ireland have risen to 31st in Fifa's list, while the Netherlands swap places with Spain at the top of the rankings. Brazil drop out of the top five into sixth place. Meanwhile, Wales Women remain in 47th place in the Fifa rankings.
A council has received complaints about people urinating and defecating outdoors after a village's public toilets were closed down. The toilets at Staffin on Skye were among a number of Highland Council-run sites shut this year to save money. The council has been in talks with Staffin Community Trust about alternative facilities. In the meantime, two complaints have been received public urination and defecation in and around the village. The nearest public toilet is in Kilmuir about 11 miles (17km) from Staffin. Residents have told BBC Alba of people using ditches, a nearby quarry and the rear of the closed toilet block. Highland Council it had cost £6,700 a year to run Staffin's loos. A spokeswoman said: "We cannot confirm that people have been urinating and defecating in the area - we have found no evidence to support these claims. "There have been two complaints made, one to environmental health and one to roads and community works. "In addition to this we have had three enquiries about Staffin toilets." She added: "The council has been in discussions with Staffin Community Trust and have agreed in principle to operate a seasonal - April to October - Highland Comfort Scheme within the community hall."
Drunken people admitted to hospital and who abuse NHS staff could be barred from pubs and clubs under a new scheme in north Wales. Health service managers have joined forces with police and linked-up with Wrexham's Nightsafe scheme as well as Pubwatch groups across the region. These groups have the power to issue banning orders which prevent drinkers from entering pubs. The programme is being extended after success in Gwynedd and Anglesey. Figures obtained by BBC Wales in June showed an average of 7,500 reported violent incidents a year on hospital staff and paramedics in Wales. From this weekend, any incidents of abuse or assault on NHS staff in north Wales and reported to North Wales Police will be passed on to be considered by the local Pubwatch groups. Where the offender was under the influence of alcohol the groups will have the power to issue banning orders that will apply to every affiliated premises within the Pubwatch area. Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB) and the Welsh Ambulance Service say aggression against NHS staff will not be tolerated. Grace Lewis Parry, health board director with lead responsibility for tackling violence and aggression, said the scheme was being extended following a successful partnership between Bangor's Ysbyty Gwynedd hospital and Pubwatch groups in Gwynedd and Anglesey. "A couple of banning orders have already been issued in north west Wales," she said. "But the success of the scheme isn't about taking action against offenders, it's about encouraging people to behave in the right way and deter them from being abusive or violent towards our staff who, after all, are there to help and treat them."
Scottish author Jackie Kay has won the 2011 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust Book of the Year for her autobiographical novel Red Dust Road. Kay's book was chosen from 91 submissions to win the Â£30,000 prize. It is the first time the public have voted for a winner but the novel was also unanimously selected by the award's judging panel. Leila Aboulela, Stewart Conn and Sue Peebles came in as runners-up, winning Â£5,000 each. Kay was born in Edinburgh to a Scottish nurse and a Nigerian student, then adopted at birth by a white couple from Glasgow. Red Dust Road follows the author in her search to find her birth parents. She said: "I happened to write the book, but it feels like my whole family is the winner. The book doesn't just belong to me. "And now it seems like it has a whole life of its own in the heart-warming and unexpected way that readers have been finding connections to their own life in it." The prize has been won by James Kelman and Edwin Morgan in previous years. Andrew Dixon, chief executive of Creative Scotland, said: "With more than 40 literature and book festivals from the Borders to Ullapool, Scotland's writers continue to raise Scotland's cultural profile to an international audience. "Jackie Kay is one of Scotland's national treasures."
Recently referred patients are being treated ahead of those on a waiting list, the Royal Cornwall Hospital (RCH) has admitted. Up to 670 people had been waiting for more than the government waiting time target, of 18 weeks, the hospital said. It explained it was treating the newer referrals first to avoid penalties for further target breaches. However, patients' group Health Initiative Cornwall said patients should be treated in order. The hospital said its waiting list had grown because of operating theatre improvement works. Orthopaedic Surgeon, Andrew Lee, told BBC News: "We're doing our very best not to make any more breaches. "We're therefore treating the people under 18 weeks as well as dealing with the breached patients as fast as we can." However, Graham Webster, from Health Initiative Cornwall, said: "[The patients] feel they've been left on the shelf, and they feel people are not concerned that they're having to wait a long time for their treatment." The hospital said a mobile operating theatre brought in in June, at a cost of Â£500,000, had helped reduce the operations backlog, from 1,600 to 670. Mr Lee said the hospital had also invested in new equipment and increased the number of operations it did each week.
Roberto Mancini believes Carlos Tevez could stay at Manchester City after his family returned to the city. The wantaway Argentina striker returned as a substitute in City's  on Sunday after seeing a move to Corinthians break down last month. There have been no other offers for the 27-year-old, and Mancini is hopeful of keeping him at the Etihad Stadium. "His family is here now. Now that his family is here I think that he can stay," City manager Mancini said. "I think this is a good moment for this club. Carlos is one of the best players that we have." I think with the good players that arrive, they can think next year we can win the title Tevez has repeatedly spoken of being unsettled in Manchester, and has said that he will not return to the city once his contract with the club comes to an end. City accepted a bid from the Brazilian side for him last month, but they later withdrew it leaving Tevez with no option other than to return to Eastlands following Argentina's unsuccessful Copa America campaign. Mancini has added Tevez's compatriot Sergio Aguero and Arsenal midfielder Samir Nasri to his squad as he prepares for the club's first Champions League campaign, and believes that may convince last season's top scorer to stay with City. "I think so," said Mancini. "He is not fit, he has only worked for two weeks. "But I think with the good players that arrive in this team - after we won the FA Cup last year - they can try to think next year we can win the title. "I think Carlos can play also next year."
Stoke City have signed Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Wilson Palacios for an undisclosed fee believed to be worth around £6m. Media playback is not supported on this device The 27-year-old Honduras international has signed a four-year deal at the Britannia Stadium. Stoke manager Tony Pulis said: "This is a fantastic deal for the club because Wilson has proved himself to be a top class performer at the highest level." Palacios moved to Spurs in a £12m deal from Wigan Athletic. The move was finalised close to the end of the transfer window after Palacios passed a medical and agreed personal terms. He made 22 starts for Spurs last season and featured for his country at the World Cup in South Africa, playing three times. Pulis added: "He has a considerable amount of international experience and played a prominent part in getting Tottenham into the Champions League only two years ago. "He has great energy and the qualities to become a driving force in the middle of the park, the type of player our fans will love. "We have been looking to stregthen our options in midfield and I am delighted to have him on board." Palacios follows Jonathan Woodgate, who completed a free transfer from Spurs to Stoke earlier this summer. Stoke later broke their transfer record to sign striker Peter Crouch from Tottenham in a £12m deal.
Influential pan-Arab and international TV broadcaster Al-Jazeera has raised Qatar's media profile. The Doha-based operation is owned by the Qatar government. Its main Arabic network is the leading pan-Arab TV news station. Al-Jazeera Arabic can be outspoken on subjects deemed as sensitive in the region, but avoids criticism of Qatar and its Gulf allies, specifically Saudi Arabia. It has faced curbs in several Arab countries where it has ruffled feathers. Al-Jazeera English launched in 2006. Other offshoots include Al-Jazeera Balkans, based in Bosnia, and US-based Al-Jazeera America. Al-Jazeera Network has more than 70 bureaux worldwide and employs around 3,000 staff. Domestic audiences are catered for by state-run TV and radio. The large expatriate population has access to media from their various home countries. Qatar has daily newspapers in Arabic and English. The main titles have links to the ruling family and there is little or no critical reporting of domestic or foreign policy affairs. BBC World Service radio in Arabic, Radio France Internationale, France's Arabic-language radio service Monte Carlo Doualiya, UAE-based MBC and Radio Sawa from the US are available on FM in Doha. Qatar has advanced internet infrastructure and is widely connected to the web. There were 2.2 million internet users by 2014 (Internetlivestats.com). Authorities filter political criticism, material deemed offensive to Islam, pornographic content and online privacy resources. The top social networks used in Qatar are Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
Saudi investors are major players in the pan-Arab TV industry, but the country has one of the region's most tightly-controlled media environments. Criticism of the government and royal family and the questioning of Islamic tenets are not generally tolerated. Self-censorship is pervasive. The state-run Broadcasting Service of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (BSKSA) operates almost all domestic broadcasting outlets. The minister of culture and information chairs the body which oversees radio and TV. Private TVs cannot operate from Saudi soil, but the country is a major market for pan-Arab satellite and pay-TV. Saudi investors are behind UAE-based TV giants MBC and OSN. Saudi tycoon Prince Alwaleed bin Talal owns the Rotana media empire and in 2011 acquired a $300m stake in Twitter. Newspapers are created by royal decree. There are more than a dozen dailies. Pan-Arab papers, subject to censorship, are available. On sensitive stories, newspapers tend to follow the editorial lead of the state news agency. There were 20.8 million internet users by 2016 (Internetlivestats.com). The authorities openly acknowledge that widespread filtering takes place. It targets "pornographic", Islam-related, human rights and political sites. The press law applies to all forms of electronic publishing. Saudi Arabia is one of the largest social media markets in the Middle East. The popularity of social media has been boosted by the high rate of smartphone ownership. With 2.4 million users, Saudi Arabia is home to more than 40% of all active Twitter users in the Arab region, says the Dubai School of Government (2014). Among the top Twitter users are clerics and members of the royal family. The country accounts for 10 per cent of all Facebook users in the Arab region. Saudi Arabia has the highest per-capita YouTube use of any country in the world.
President: Bashar al-Assad In power since succeeding his father 2000, Bashar al-Assad is fighting for control of his country after "Arab Spring" protests against his rule turned into a full-scale armed rebellion. He inherited a tightly controlled and repressive political structure from long-time dictator Hafez al-Assad, with an inner circle dominated by members of the Assad family's minority Alawite Shia community. Mr Assad's government continues to enjoy strong diplomatic and military support from Russia and traditional ally Iran, as well as Lebanon's Iranian-backed Hezbollah militant group. The question of whether he should remain in power remains a key sticking point in attempts to reach some in of settlement of Syria's civil war, with rebels demanding his immediate departure - a condition rejected by Mr Assad and his allies. Bashar al-Assad would probably have been working as an optician had his brother not died in a car accident in 1994. The death of Basil - groomed to succeed Hafez al-Assad - catapulted the younger brother into politics, and into the presidency after his father died in June 2000. On taking office he ushered in a brief period of openness and cautious reform. Political prisoners were released and restrictions on the media were eased. Political debate was tolerated and open calls for freedom of expression and political pluralism were made. But the pace of change alarmed the establishment - the army, the Baath party and the Alawite minority. Fearing instability and perceiving a threat to their influence, they acted not only to slow it down, but to revert to the old ways.
The Syrian uprising has left a fractured media environment, split between areas controlled by the government, Islamic State militants and other armed groups. Scores of journalists and citizen journalists have been killed since the start of the revolt in 2011. Syria was the world's deadliest country for journalists in 2014, says Reporters Without Borders. Islamic State jihadists "enforce an information dictatorship" in the areas they control. Foreign journalists have been among the captives whose murders have been shown in online videos posted by Islamic State militants. In areas held by other groups, there is a flourishing, if somewhat chaotic, media scene. Satellite TV is the most popular medium and non-Syrian TVs have big audiences. The government and ruling party operate broadcast and print media. Media in government-controlled areas are strongly supportive of the president. Opposition satellite TVs broadcast from abroad and have proliferated since 2011; they include London-based Barada TV, UAE-based Orient TV and Al-Ghad TV. Radio is a key platform for Syria's opposition media. At least a dozen stations operate online from abroad or on FM in rebel-held areas. Some are run by NGOs, with Western support. The three main newspapers are state-run. Privately-owned titles are predominantly operated by figures with good government connections. With around 5.9 million internet users by 2014 (InternetLiveStats.com), the web has emerged as a vehicle for dissent. Facebook is the favoured platform for citizen journalists, activists, militia groups and supporters of all sides to disseminate news. Twitter has a much smaller take-up There are heavy government controls in the form of filtering and surveillance. The pro-government Syrian Electronic Army has targeted opposition and foreign websites in an ongoing series of high-profile cyber-attacks.
The UAE is a regional and international centre for TV and media, alongside Egypt and Lebanon. Dubai Media City and twofour54, Abu Dhabi's media zone, were set up to attract key players. Organisations including Reuters, CNN, Sony and Fox have moved in. The UAE is home to major pan-Arab broadcasters, including Saudi-owned MBC and Orbit Showtime Network. Sky News Arabia launched from Abu Dhabi in 2012. The presence of millions of expatriates adds variety to the media scene, which caters for Arab, English-speaking and South Asian audiences. Most domestic UAE media outlets are run by state-owned Abu Dhabi Media and Dubai Media Incorporated. The constitution provides for freedom of speech but there is strong regulatory and political control of media content. Publications must be licensed and follow official guidelines on reporting. Foreign publications are censored before distribution. Journalists tend to practise self-censorship. The UAE has one of the highest internet penetration rates in the Arab world. By 2016 there were 8.5 million users (InternetLiveStats.com). Extensive, automated filtering is in place at ISP level. Targeted content includes opposition politics and religion. More than 40% of residents use Facebook at least once a month. Legislation bans the dissemination of online material that can threaten "public order", and provides for prison terms for those who "deride or damage" the reputation of the state and "display contempt" for religion.
A priest in Londonderry has said he would be prepared to go to jail rather than break the seal of confession. Father Paddy O'Kane was responding to the Irish justice minister, Alan Shatter, who said that forthcoming child protection measures, will "apply regardless of any internal rules of any religious grouping". A priest could be convicted of a criminal offence if they were told of a sexual abuse case and failed to report it to the civil authorities, under the new legislation. Mr Shatter said past failures in the Catholic Church had led paedophiles to believe they could act with "impunity". Father O'Kane, from Holy Family Church in Ballymagroarty, said he will not accept the rules. He said he did not think the law will go through. "If it does priests will be prepared to go to jail rather than break the seal," he said. "It's at the very core of what a priest is. If a priest were to break the seal he will be automatically excommunicated. "Priests cannot function if they're not allowed to keep the seal of confession." A number of child protection measures were announced following the Cloyne report which was published last month. It found the diocese failed to report all complaints of abuse to police. The inquiry into the Cloyne Diocese was set up by the Irish government in January 2009 following a report published the previous month. It was conducted by the National Board for Safeguarding Children (NBSC) - a body set up by the Catholic Church to oversee child protection policies. It found child protection practices in the diocese were "inadequate and in some respects dangerous".
A body has been discovered in the rubble of a kebab shop in Leicester that was destroyed in an explosion. Two men and four women were arrested after the explosion destroyed the shop in Narborough Road in the early hours of Monday. Leicestershire Police said officers were treating the blast as suspicious and a murder inquiry was under way. At first it was not believed anyone was hurt in the blast, but a body was found 14 hours after the explosion. Officers said the man would not be identified until his family had been informed. Police have been granted extra time to detain the six people arrested in connection with the incident. Det Supt Mark Harrison, of Leicestershire Police, said: "The investigation is in its early stages and officers have been in the area throughout the day making a number of inquiries. "We are keen to piece together the circumstances that led to this incident and we would urge anyone who may have any information to please contact police." Two shops close to the kebab shop have been boarded up because of damage caused by the explosion. Leicestershire Fire and Rescue and police are investigating the cause of the blast. Fire spokesman Dave Watson said: "We had a call at half past two in the morning and it was a large explosion - and the scene when we arrived showed devastation to the one building with damage to several neighbouring buildings." Neighbour Julie Boughton said: "There was a massive bang and I thought it was an earthquake. My house shook andâ€¦ next thing we knew there was a lot of smoke." Parts of Narborough Road remain closed while investigations are carried out.
Arsenal have completed the signing of Germany defender Per Mertesacker from Werder Bremen. The 26-year-old is believed to have cost about £8m and has signed a long-term deal at the London club. "I had a great time at Werder, and owe them a lot, but the move to London is a wish come true," said Mertesacker. "The English Premier League has for me always represented an interesting challenge." Manager Arsene Wenger told the club website: "We are delighted to welcome Per Mertesacker to the club. "He is a German international with vast experience and strength and is good on the floor and in the air. "I believe he will be well-suited to the Premier League and a tremendous asset to the team." Arsenal also signed Santos Andre Santos from Fenerbahce. The defensive reinforcements come off the back of their 8-2 hammering by Manchester United in the Premier League on Sunday. They have recently sold left-back Gael Clichy to Manchester City, and right-back Emmanuel Eboue to Turkish club Galatasary, while on Tuesday Armand Traore joined Queens Park Rangers. Centre-back Thomas Vermaelen was injured for the trip to Old Trafford and missed most of last season with an Achilles tendon injury. Mertesacker was in the last year of his contract at Bremen and the club are not in the Champions League or Europa League this season. He was part of the German team which beat England 4-1 at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa last summer and was recalled to the squad to face Austria in their European Championship qualifier on Friday after a heel injury suffered at the end of last season.
Aston Villa have signed Alan Hutton and Jermaine Jenas from Tottenham. Scotland international right-back Hutton, 26, has joined on a permanent deal after signing a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee. Midfielder Jenas, 28, has arrived on loan until the end of the season after six years at Spurs. Hutton was given permission to leave the Scotland camp earlier on Wednesday and it is understood he turned down Fulham to join Villa. He had fallen out of favour at Spurs this season and will be reunited with former Rangers boss Alex McLeish at Villa. McLeish said: "Alan is a player whom I know well. He fits the bill in terms of having the right temperament to be an important and influential player for Villa. "Jermaine is a dynamic midfield player and I feel he will add to the quality of the squad as well. He has also played at a very high level and I'm sure he will be relishing this opportunity." Jenas joined Spurs from Newcastle in 2005 and he has made 201 appearances for the club. Villa have also agreed to sign Republic of Ireland Under-21 international defender Enda Stevens from Shamrock Rovers for an undisclosed fee in January 2012. The 21-year-old will play against Tottenham in the group stages of the Europa League before his move to Villa Park.
US actor James Franco will not be making his Broadway debut in Tennessee Williams' Sweet Bird of Youth this autumn, his publicist has confirmed. The 127 Hours star had been set to appear opposite Nicole Kidman in the play, which tells of an ageing actress and the gigolo who exploits her. Franco's publicist did not state why the 33-year-old was no longer involved. The actor is currently filming Oz: The Great and Powerful and studying for a doctorate in English at Yale. Franco, currently on screen in Rise of the Planet of the Apes, will also soon be seen in long-running US soap General Hospital. The actor, who co-hosted the Oscars earlier this year, has a number of films in various stages of production. Sweet Bird of Youth had been one of most anticipated plays this season because of Franco and Kidman's involvement. In an interview with the New York Times, however, director David Cromer said the revival would now not happen this autumn. The original Broadway production of Sweet Bird of Youth opened in March 1959 starring Geraldine Page and Paul Newman. The play, which ran for 10 months and was nominated for several Tony awards, was later made into a film with the two actors reprising their Broadway roles.
Stoke have broken their transfer record to sign striker Peter Crouch from Tottenham Hotspur for £12m. Media playback is not supported on this device Crouch, 30, agreed a four-year deal to complete a busy day for the Potters, who also signed Wilson Palacios from Spurs and Birmingham's Cameron Jerome. Stoke have paid an initial £10m, but the fee could rise to £12m dependent on the fulfilment of various clauses. "These fantastic deals are a statement of this football club's intent," said City's chief executive Tony Scholes. "The club has made incredible strides forward over the past five years and to attract players of this calibre shows our ambitions as we look to continue that progress this season and beyond that." Manager Tony Pulis added: "There has been a real buzz of excitement around the city about where this club is going since we reached the FA Cup final and then started our Europa League adventure. "These signings certainly add to that great sense of anticipation. "Peter has an excellent goalscoring record at the highest level. His goals-per-games ratio for England is remarkable and he scored seven goals in 10 Champions League games for Tottenham last season, which gives you an idea of his pedigree."
Carlos Tevez accepts it will be "impossible" for him to leave Manchester City before the end of the transfer window, BBC Sport understands. The 27-year-old had been adamant he would leave the club to be nearer to his two daughters in Argentina. But a source close to the player told BBC Sport: "It will be impossible for Carlos to leave and he knows that." He added that Inter Milan had made an offer for the striker, but it had fallen short of City's valuation. The summer transfer window closes at 2300 BST on Wednesday. Staying at Eastlands will mark something of a comedown for Tevez, who released a statement in July making clear his desire to leave City for family reasons. A few weeks later, City thought they had agreed a deal with Corinthians for the sale of the striker, only for the Sao Paulo-based outfit to pull out because they could not finalise the transfer before the close of their international transfer window. Inter Milan have also been consistently linked with the player, but instead opted for Atletico Madrid's Diego Forlan to replace Samuel Eto'o. A combination of the fee wanted by City for Tevez and the player's salary demands seem to have warded off potential suitors. Tevez is yet to start a game for City this season, with Sergio Aguero and Edin Dzeko preferred in attack by manager Roberto Mancini. The forward has also lost the club captaincy to Vincent Kompany, while his place in the Argentina national side has again been taken by Aguero. Tevez signed a five-year deal with City in July 2009, having moved to the club from Manchester United. He submitted a transfer request last December, before withdrawing it and helping City finish third in the Premier League table.
Castleford have named Leigh Centurions' Ian Millward as their new head coach on a three-year deal. The 51-year-old has been in charge of the Centurions since the 2010 season, and led them to Northern Rail Cup success in 2011. Australian Millward, who has previously coached St Helens and Wigan, will succeed Terry Matterson, who is leaving at the end of the season. He last coached in Super League with Wigan before being sacked in 2006. "We have been very impressed with Ian and his approach to the task and challenge of taking the Tigers to the next level," said Castleford chief executive Richard Wright. "His CV speaks volumes. He is constantly monitoring new developments and techniques in both the English and Australian games and has ideal contacts in terms of sports science which is becoming increasingly important. Leigh acting chairman Keith Freer added: "Ian is ready for a new challenge. We will miss his drive, commitment, humour, charm and decency. "We are in the process of developing many new projects and Ian has been involved with and supportive of all of them and will continue to support all these new initiatives. "We have had preliminary discussions with Castleford with regards forming a partnership involving the dual registration of young Tigers starlets gaining first team experience with Leigh." Earlier this year the coach denied links with a move to Salford. He has also coached in the Australian NRL with North Queensland and Canberra. Wollongong-born Millward's most successful spell came with St Helens, with two Grand Final successes in 2000 and 2002 in Super League. Saints also won the Challenge Cup twice under the Australian's tutelage in 2001 and 2004.
A campaign has been launched to recruit 5,000 people as members of the Royal Cornwall Hospitals Trust. Hospital officials said members would be able to influence future decisions in the county. The campaign is part of a consultation process before the Royal Cornwall Hospital bids to become a foundation trust. Lezli Boswell, the trust's new interim chief executive, said members could be as young as 11-years-old. Staff at the Royal Cornwall Hospital in Truro have already signed up more than 60 members of the public at an event in the city centre. One of those, Vic Atkinson, from Bugle near St Austell, said: "I feel strongly about the hospitals, but I feel also strongly they could do with a change. "It depends if we get any input. If we can get some input we might be able to give some ideas and if it gets the backing they might be taken on board." The hospital said becoming a foundation trust would give it more freedom to meet local needs. Hospital officials said it would be more answerable to the community. Lezli Boswell, who took over as the trust's interim chief executive on Thursday, said: "I think that members can be very, very influential and we have to, as directors of the board, ensure they have the correct information, that we directly provide information to them about plans and proposals, and listen to what they have to say." Ms Boswell said that by becoming a foundation trust, it would be a "good indication of a well-led, efficient and good quality organisation, providing excellent patient outcomes."
A musician from Alloa has died after drowning off the coast of the Caribbean island of St Maartens. Nicolas Sagar was working as a pianist on the island and had gone swimming. It is believed he got in to difficulties and drowned. The 33-year-old was found at Maho Beach by tourists who could not resuscitate him and called emergency services. Medics pronounced him dead at the scene on Sunday morning and his body was identified later that day. Mr Sagar's parents are working with the Home Office to repatriate their son's body and arrangements are still being made for his funeral. Police on the island said there appeared to be no suspicious circumstances and that the incident was a tragic accident. Mr Sagar, who was also involved in acting and musical directing, previously worked in musical theatre in London and on cruise ships. He was expected to continue his travelling by visiting Barbados on Monday. 'Regular swims' Kelly Sagar, the deceased's father, said: "He was a wonderful son. The piano was his great love; from the age of eight, the only thing he wanted to do was play piano and sing. "He was never happier than when he was sitting at the piano with a pint resting on top. "He was travelling the world doing what he loved. "Nick worked in the evenings and liked to spend his days on the beach. He'd go swimming there quite often and it appears that on this occasion he got in to difficulty. "He will be missed terribly." Mr and Mrs Sagar said they had been comforted by messages posted on their son's social networking site.
Walter Swinburn is to quit as a trainer on 31 October - although he may return if a backer can be found. The former jockey, 50, won the Epsom Derby three times as a rider, including the 1981 contest on Shergar. He took over the training licence from his father-in-law, Peter Harris, in November 2004 and sent out over 260 winners from his yard in Hertfordshire. But with Harris ending his 30-year link with racing, Swinburn told the Racing Post: "A big decision had to be made" He added: "With a big yard like this you need the boxes full up, and Peter is the main owner. To suddenly find you are minus 50 horses would not have been a good starting point. "I'm very confident you haven't seen the last of me as a trainer, but the advice from the accountants and so on was that it wasn't viable at the moment. "When I'd listened to their advice I was happy to take it. I just need to take a step back and it feels the right decision." Harris said: "I'm sure the economic climate has played its part and my decision would reduce his numbers of horses in training." Swinburn landed one of the biggest victories of his training career earlier this season when Julienas won the Royal Hunt Cup at Ascot.
Four men have been arrested in separate parts of the UK by police investigating the hacker groups Anonymous and LulzSec. The suspects - from Doncaster, Warminster, Northampton and London - are being questioned by Scotland Yard's e-Crime unit. Their arrests are part of a wider operation involving UK law enforcement and the FBI. At the same time, 14 suspected members of Anonymous appeared in a US court. Authorities around the world have been rounding up suspects following a wave of attacks by both groups on major corporations and government institutions. Amazon, PayPal, the CIA, US Senate and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency have all suffered either intrusions or denial of service attacks, designed to take their websites offline. In the latest round of British arrests, police detained 20-year-old Christopher Weatherhead from Northampton and 26-year-old Ashley Rhodes from Kennington, near London. The pair are due to appear at Westminster Magistrates Court on 7 September. Detectives also arrested a 24-year-old man from Doncaster, and a 20-year-old from Wiltshire for conspiring to commit offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. In the United States, a mass court appearance saw 14 suspected Anonymous members appear before a judge in San Jose, California. All of them denied being involved in a denial of service attack on PayPal's website in December 2010. Anonymous had publicly declared its intent to target both PayPal and Amazon for, what the group perceived as, their complicity in isolating whistle blowing website Wikileaks. Following the leaking of confidential US State Department memos, PayPal stopped processing donations to Wikileaks, while Amazon kicked the site off its web hosting service.
Blackburn Rovers manager Steve Kean says that he is delighted with the additions that he has made to his squad over the summer. Rovers have signed eight players, including deadline day trio Yakubu, Scott Dann and Jordan Slew, and let 12 leave Ewood Park. Kean told BBC Radio Lancashire: "People thought we were going to lose players.  We've managed to keep the majority. "We've managed to bring in fantastic quality right on the last day." Media playback is not supported on this device The signing of centre-back Dann could potentially become Blackburn's record transfer based on appearances and various incentives. Kean said: "I've worked with him before. He's a fantastic leader but more importantly he's a top player." Nigeria striker Yakubu agreed a three-year deal with Rovers after being out of favour for almost a year at Everton. Media playback is not supported on this device "When we found out his was available we moved swiftly," Kean said. "To get somebody with a track record of scoring goals at this level is great. "Everybody knows that if you can get him in the box and get him the service then he scores, so I think it's a brilliant signing." The capture of 18-year-old striker Jordan Slew from Sheffield United for around £1m will see him join the club's development squad.
A 30-year-old man has been released on bail after being arrested by police investigating phone hacking at the News of the World. The man was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to intercept voicemail messages and attempting to pervert the course of justice. The arrest took place by appointment at a north London police station; the man is in police custody. He has been bailed to a date in mid January 2012. He was arrested by officers from Scotland Yard's fresh investigation into phone hacking, Operation Weeting. On Tuesday, a 71-year-old Stuart Kuttner, an ex-News of the World managing editor, was rearrested and bailed as part of the phone-hacking probe. Mr Kuttner was originally arrested on 2 August on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications and corruption, and bailed. He has now been bailed to a date in September, the Metropolitan Police said. The Met's Operation Weeting is investigating illegal hacking of the mobile phone voicemails of public figures by the now-defunct News of the World newspaper. The latest arrest is the 15th to be made on suspicion of phone hacking since Operation Weeting was launched in January. It happened just after midday. BBC home affairs correspondent Tom Symonds said the age of the arrested person suggested someone more junior compared to some of the more senior executives who have been arrested by the police so far. It is a long-running investigation and there would almost certainly be further arrests, our correspondent added. Former News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks and ex-Downing Street communications chief Andy Coulson are among those who have already been arrested as part of the inquiry. The scandal has led Met Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson and Assistant Commissioner John Yates to resign, and the News of the World to close down after 168 years.
Library users in part of Somerset are being asked to critique their service as part of a five-year plan. Bath and North East Somerset Council wants to review its services to see how they can be improved. Councillor David Dixon said the results would help the service "move forward" but it was "not going out in this consultation with a view to close libraries". Residents can complete the survey at their libraries or online. Mr Dixon said: "We're not in the same situation as many other councils who are looking at drastic cuts and closing libraries. "We're looking to make sure that the library service we've got is what people actually need and what they want." Mr Dixon said the survey results would likely provide "efficiencies" as there was a focus on "moving forward" and catching up with technology. "We're looking at innovative ways to deliver a better library service to people." Meanwhile library users in the Somerset County Council area are waiting to find out if funding will be withdrawn from 11 libraries in the county. The council's decision has gone to a full judicial review being brought about jointly with campaigners in Gloucestershire who are trying to save 10 libraries that are under threat.
A teenage girl died and four other people were injured when Tunisian troops clashed with crowds in a provincial town, officials said. State news agency Tap said police intervened when youths blocked a road in Sbeitla, 200km (130 miles) south-west of Tunis, for "looting". However, residents said soldiers opened fire to break up fights involving hundreds of people, Reuters reported. Elections are due to be held in Tunisia in October. Last month police in Tunis used tear gas to break up a protest over lack of reforms since January's overthrow of President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali. Although the cause of the clashes in Sbeitla was unclear, some residents blamed supporters of the deposed president for trying to destabilise the country ahead of elections, according to Reuters. Correspondents say supporters of the former regime are often blamed for an increase in violence since January. Interior ministry officials said police had fired warning shots at a crowd of youths, and a teenage girl was fatally injured in the ensuing rush, Tap reported. Angry crowds then attacked a police station, buses and a hospital, the report said. But local resident Adnan Hlali told Reuters by telephone that the army had tried to break up fights between people from the town and opened fire "killing a 16-year-old girl". "Many people were wounded, including two in a critical condition," he said. The protests in Tunisia earlier this year sparked revolts across the region - the movement that became known as the Arab Spring.
A Midlands-based carpet firm says it has been acquired in a deal of about £40m to secure the company's future. Brintons Carpets, which is based in Kidderminster, Worcestershire, has been bought out by The Carlyle Group. The deal involves the company taking on about £20m in debt and investing about £20m, Brintons said. The firm, which has been in the hands of the same family for more than 200 years, employs about 700 people in Kidderminster and Telford, Shropshire. It was established by William Brinton in 1783 and manufactures carpets for the residential and commercial markets. The company employs about 1,670 people around the world. Brintons managing director Don Coates said: "When we evaluated the 30 plus offers for the company this was by far the best and enables the company to move forward with confidence. "If we had not taken this action the company would not have been able to continue trading." He added the deal would allow the firm to complete its "state of the art Chinese manufacturing site". Mr Coates said: "This deal will ensure that not only will the company have a viable future, but that it receives the required investment to compete in the global market. "Carlyle's strategic involvement and international network combined with our global reputation for quality and innovation will set the company back on track for long-term profitable growth."
Indian film-maker Jagmohan Mundhra has died of multiple organ failure in the city of Mumbai (Bombay), aged 64. The Los Angeles-based director was admitted to a hospital early on Friday after suffering from chest pain and low blood pressure. He died on Sunday. Mundhra was a director who made a diverse range of films, tackling many genres such as horror, erotic thrillers and social dramas. Among his best-known films are Kamala, Bawandar and Provoked. A graduate from India's leading Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mundhra earned a Phd in motion pictures from Michigan State University before embarking on his film career. Over the years,  he made films tackling affecting social issues such as Kamala and Bawandar, and erotic thrillers like Night Eyes and Sexual Malice. Bawandar tried to bring to life the true story of an illiterate social worker in Rajasthan, who was raped three times but did not give up her fight for the truth. Mundhra also made Shoot at Sight, a film based on the 7 July 2005 suicide bombings on London's transport system, starring Naseeruddin Shah and Greta Scacchi. In 2006, the Congress party served a legal notice on Mundhra to prevent him from making a film about the life of party president, Sonia Gandhi. "If some were too keen to hail him as a genius, others were equally enthusiastic in dismissing him as nothing more than a purveyor of sleaze. The reality lay somewhere between," wrote The Hindu newspaper.
The chief minister of India's Uttar Pradesh state sent an empty private jet to get a pair of sandals from Mumbai, leaked US diplomatic cables say. Ms Mayawati, an icon to millions of low-caste Dalits, rules over India's most populous state which is also one of the poorest in the country. But the cables on whistleblower site Wikileaks described her as "obsessed with becoming Prime Minister". Ms Mayawati or her office is yet to respond to the leaked cables. An official in the state government told the BBC the government was unlikely to respond. Cables, dated 23 October 2008 and marked confidential, are among the latest set of documents released by Wikileaks in recent days. "When she needed new sandals, her private jet flew empty to Mumbai to retrieve her preferred brand," the cables say. They add that the chief minister is paranoid about her security and "fears assassination" and employs "food tasters" to guard against poisoning. She maintains a "vice-like grip on all levels of power" and all decisions must run through her or a small group of advisors, the releases say. Ms Mayawati has sparked controversy for building statues of herself and other Dalit icons, but she denies encouraging a personality cult. In the last few years, huge concrete parks have been built in the state capital, Lucknow, and Noida, a Delhi suburb, with scores of massive stone statues of Ms Mayawati dotting the landscape. Statues of political leaders are generally put up posthumously, but Ms Mayawati says that belief is outdated. Critics accuse her of self-glorification. She accuses them of conspiring against her.
Pupils in Year 13 are making their decisions about whether to apply to university and which one they should choose. Q&A: Tuition fees One of the big issues this year is the new financing system, which will apply to students starting courses from September 2012. BBC News has designed a calculator to give students repaying loans under the new system an idea of how much it may cost them to pay off their student loans. The new repayment system applies in England and Wales - there is more detail on fees and loans around the UK here. The calculator uses estimates of predicted lifetime earnings based on the career areas people are considering pursuing, their age and sex. All the figures are based on averages, so low and high earners in a particular category would pay different amounts to those given by the calculator. The earnings figures are for all employees, not just graduates, because graduate-only figures are not available. The calculator is designed to provide a general illustration of cost of financing in various scenarios, rather than to give precise predictions of how much individuals will have to pay. The figures are all in 2011 money, so reflect how much particular amounts of money are worth to you today.
A mosque in a Palestinian village north of Jerusalem was attacked overnight, residents say. Two tyres were set on fire and thrown into the mosque in the village of Kasra, near the West Bank city of Nablus, 65km (40 miles) north of Jerusalem, they said. Graffiti in Hebrew threatening further attacks had been left on the walls, residents added. Israeli authorities say they are investigating. The arson attack was carried out just hours after Israeli police demolished three illegal structures at the nearby hilltop Jewish settlement of Migron. Settlers may have set fire to the mosque in retaliation, Israeli newspapers suggest. There has been sharp rise in violence involving settlers in 2011, the UN says. In 2011 alone, there have been more than 250 incidents in which Palestinians have been injured or had their property damaged. Tensions have been running high two weeks ahead of a planned appeal by the Palestinian leadership to the United Nations, calling for the acceptance of an independent Palestinian state within its 1967 borders in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem. Israel is fiercely against the move. The Israeli army has reportedly been training settlers in preparation for potential clashes with Palestinians. There are some 500,000 Jewish Settlers living in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Settlements are regarded as illegal under international law, although Israel disputes this.
Hounds from a Somerset hunt have been filmed apparently pursuing a fox, an animal welfare group has claimed. The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) said the fox was shown running on a railway line at Clapton. A few moments after the fox runs on the tracks hounds are then shown appearing but are called back by huntsmen. A Countryside Alliance spokeswoman, speaking on behalf of the Seavington Hunt, said an investigation would take place into the incident. Hunting foxes with dogs has been illegal since 2005 but they can chase a scent and flush out foxes who are then shot. Avon and Somerset Police said its hunt liaison officer was investigating whether any illegal hunting had occurred while British Transport Police said no trespass offence had been committed as no people had gone on to the line. The IFAW member who filmed the incident, who wished to remain anonymous, said it was "completely irresponsible". "I've seen a lot of things over the years I've been filming," he said. "This is a main line railway, I don't know what would have happened if they'd have hit the hounds on that line." Alison Hawes, from the Countryside Alliance, which represents hunts, said an investigation would take place into how the hounds ended up on the track. She said: "They were on there for less than two minutes and the hunt acted very professionally in calling them off the line as quickly as possible." Andrew Hudd, from the train drivers' union Aslef, said footage of the incident was "shocking". "I estimate around a dozen [dogs were on the line] at one point which is a considerable threat to a train," he said. Network Rail has asked to see the footage.
Glamorgan have accepted an England and Wales Cricket Board request to play with a pink ball in their final County Championship match at Kent. Kent had also accepted the experiment for the four-day match, starting in Canterbury on 12 September. The Division Two match will begin at 1400 BST, instead of 1030 BST, and finish at 2100 BST. A pink ball has already been tried in first-class cricket in Pakistan. The move is part of an International Cricket Council proposal to introduce day-night Test matches. And the ICC is keen for all Test-playing nations to use the new ball in their four-day competitions to ensure it is up to the required standard. The viability of playing day-night Tests, to boost crowds, is being explored by the game's governing body. In June, England and Wales Cricket Board managing director Huw Morris said he was "open-minded" about the prospect of playing floodlit Test matches. The former Glamorgan batsman said: "The colour of the ball we would potentially use under lights would be important and trialling it in other forms of the game before we do it at international level would be important." Both Glamorgan and Kent are out of contention for promotion from Division Two of the County Championship.
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has pressed the start button to open a pipeline carrying natural gas directly to Germany under the Baltic Sea. He said the Nord Stream pipeline would reduce Russia's dependence on Ukrainian pipelines, which were shut during gas disputes between Moscow and Kiev. "Technical gas", needed to build up pressure, was released on Tuesday. It is expected German consumers will begin receiving Russian gas through the new pipeline in a few weeks. The official launch of Nord Stream will be marked with a visit by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev to Germany in November. Nord Stream, a twin pipeline, was built at a cost of $12.5bn (Â£7.7bn; 8.8bn euros) and is 1,224km (761 miles) long, running from Vyborg in north-west Russia to Sassnitz in north-east Germany. It should be able to move 55bn cu m of gas a year by 2013, after the completion of the second pipeline. Mr Putin, visiting Vyborg, said Ukraine had been "taking advantage", and that relations between the two countries would now become "more civilised". At present, 80% of Russia's gas exports to the EU flow through pipelines across Ukrainian soil. Apart from Nord Stream, Russia has been planning another pipeline, South Stream, which will run from southern Russia to Bulgaria under the Black Sea. The project is expected to pipe 63bn cu m of gas to central and southern Europe annually. In another project to pipe ex-Soviet gas westwards, Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Austria have agreed to construct a 3,900km pipeline called Nabucco. It is expected to pump up to 31bn cubic metres of gas annually from the Caspian and the Middle East across Turkey and into Europe.
An ancient scheduled monument is going up for auction in East Yorkshire. Moot Hill, in Driffield, is being marketed more for the surrounding grazing land than the remains of the motte and bailey castle it may contain. Archaeologists believe a castle, which is now just a large mound, was built in about 1071. Excavations in the 19th Century by local archaeologist JR Mortimer revealed Saxon relics, including bits of swords, spears and a bronze axe. Owner James Hood, a retired farmer who bought the land in 1973, disputes archaeologists' theories and claims an excavation in the mid-70s revealed nothing. Mr Hood said: "It was supposed to be a burial mound, then they decided it was a motte and bailey castle. "You wouldn't build a castle without foundations whatsoever." The auctioneers describe the two acre site as a "a large parcel" of land suitable for grazing horses and other livestock. It has a guide price of Â£30,000. The site is protected by an English Heritage listing which states that the site is of national importance. If it was a castle then on the mound, or motte, there would once have been a wooden defensive wall and a tower. The large enclosure was known as a bailey. Documents from the early 13th Century refer to an abandoned bailey at Driffield. Mr Mortimer was a local anthologist who excavated many burial mounds and other features. He died in 1911 but left more than 66,000 artefacts and his collection is now at the Hull and East Riding Museum in Hull.
A Shrewsbury secondary school has been approved for closure by a meeting of Shropshire Council's cabinet. The unanimous decision to close the Wakeman School in 2013 came a fortnight after it achieved its best ever GCSE results. Head teacher Karen Moore said the school would appeal and was also considering academy status, which would remove it from local authority control. The council said the decision was due to "unsustainable" pupil numbers. In July, Shropshire Council also confirmed the closure of four primary schools. The Conservative-controlled authority praised staff at the Wakeman and said the closure was due to the school's financial sustainability, rather than its standard of education. In March, Ofsted reported that the Wakeman was a good school, with a good capacity for sustained improvement and a strong leadership. The town centre school has only 240 pupils on its roll from September, out of a capacity of 675. School campaigners said the falling rolls had been due to rumours over the past five years regarding its future. Pupils from the arts college have been actively campaigning against its closure since February. Before the cabinet meeting pupils performed street theatre outside Shire Hall, recreating a crime scene in protest against the plans. The council said the impact on pupils would be minimised by phasing the closure over two years.
Anti-mafia investigators in Italy want to interview Manchester City striker Mario Balotelli over a visit he made to a known mafia hot spot in Naples. Prosecutors say they want to interview him over possible contacts he may have had unwittingly with the Neapolitan mafia, the Camorra, last year. The move is part of a wider investigation into money laundering. There is no suggestion Balotelli has committed any crime. He says he is very relaxed about answering any questions. The investigators' approach comes after Balotelli was photographed in the company of a couple of known Camorra gangsters as he toured one of the most deprived, violent and crime-ridden parts of Naples. Earlier this week Balotelli was given a hero's welcome when he visited a prison in Florence with other members of the Italy squad. Born in Italy to Ghanaian parents - but adopted by an Italian family when he was still a child - he is one of the very few black players to have pulled on the famous blue shirt of the Italian national team. Throughout his playing career in Italy he was consistently the target of racist abuse by a minority of fans. He is not the first footballer to mingle with the mob. Arguably the greatest player of all - the Argentinian, Diego Maradona - was well-known for his allegedly close relationship with several Camorra godfathers during his time playing for Napoli in the 1980s.
Newly released recordings from civil and military aviation officials on 11 September 2001 conveys the confusion as the attacks of that day unfolded. The audio includes a flight attendant's plea for help and discussions about an order from Vice-President Dick Cheney to shoot down rogue civilian planes. Threats from one of the lead hijackers, Mohammed Atta, are also heard. The audio was prepared for the 9/11 Commission, but was not completed before that inquiry reported in 2004. Much of the material has been previously published in transcript form. Among the recordings is a phone call from Betty Ong, a flight attendant on American Airlines Flight 11. "Somebody's stabbed in business class, and, um I think there is Mace that we can't breathe," Ms Ong says. "I don't know, I think we're getting hijacked." One of the hijackers, Mohammed Atta, is heard on the same plane saying: "Nobody move, everything will be OK. "If you try to make any moves, you will injure yourself and the airplane. Just stay quiet." Most of recordings come from the Federal Aviation Administration and are of controllers and the military officials working with them. After Flight 11 hits the World Trade Center, controllers are heard as a second plane streaks past a radar control facility on its way to Manhattan. "Another one just hit the World Trade," says a voice. That is followed by: "The whole building just, ah, came apart." When some fighter jets were scrambled eastward in the confusion, a military commander ordered them back to Washington as fast as possible. "I don't care how many windows you break," Maj Kevin Nasypany says, several minutes before the last of the planes, United flight 93, crashes in Pennsylvania. The order from the vice-president to shoot down unresponsive planes comes at about 10:30.
A Bolivian man who was the sole survivor of a plane crash has been found alive in the Amazon jungle three days after the plane went down. Rescue officials said Minor Vidal, 35, was found with head injuries away from the site of Tuesday's crash. Mr Vidal told his rescuers he escaped after being trapped in the wreckage and survived by drinking his own urine and water from a lagoon. Eight people were killed in the crash near Trinidad, in north-east Bolivia. The Aerocon Airlines flight was travelling from Santa Cruz to Trinidad when air traffic controllers lost track of it. All nine passengers and crew were originally reported to have been killed in the crash. The head of the rescue mission, Captain David Bustos, said they began searching further away from the wreckage when they found only eight bodies at the crash site. "From several kilometres (miles) away, we saw a man on the river bank signalling to us. When we got closer, he knelt down and thanked God," Capt Bustos said. "He said he'd been trapped in the plane for more than 15 hours and that when he finally escaped he began to walk and survived by drinking his own urine and water from a lagoon," Reuters quoted Capt Bustos as saying.
Carlos Tevez has been permanently stripped of the Manchester City captaincy by manager Roberto Mancini. The Argentine striker spent pre-season searching in vain for a new club and has been replaced as skipper by defender Vincent Kompany. Mancini said: "Carlos wanted to leave for family reasons. I respected his opinion but Carlos is still here because we didn't find a solution. "I decided in the summer that Vinnie [Kompany] was the captain." Tevez has made one substitute appearance for City this season, replacing compatriot Sergio Aguero in the 3-2 win at Bolton on 21 August. He has been named in the squad to face Wigan on Saturday, but will not now be captain of the team. Belgium international Kompany joined City from Hamburg in 2008 and made 53 appearances in all competitions last season. He also won the supporters' Player of the Year award as well as the players' Player of the Year honour. Mancini added that Tevez would still be a key part of the squad in the coming season, as City make their debut in the Champions League. He said: "He's a fantastic player for us, someone who can score 20 goals a season." Tevez spoke recently of his "love-hate" relationship with Mancini, and for much of the summer he was linked with a move away from Etihad Stadium. Kompany has led the side in the three Premier League matches so far this season - City have won all of them as they seek a first championship title since 1968.
David Walliams has begun the seventh day of his bid to swim the River Thames from its source to central London. The comedian entered the water at 06:30 BST at Old Windsor Lock, in Berkshire, and aims to swim 21 miles to Teddington, in south-west London. He is continuing his Big Splash Challenge for Sport Relief despite being warned not to swim in the river. Thames Water said 500,000 cubic metres of raw sewage had entered the London section of the Thames this week. Sport Relief said Walliams had received several inoculations to protect him from diseases carried in the river, and his health was constantly being monitored. The 40-year-old Little Britain star has fallen behind schedule in his bid to swim the 140-mile route in eight days. He began at the river's source in Gloucestershire on 5 September but suffered a bout of "Thames Tummy" which left him with a high temperature. Walliams said he had recovered from the illness but was wary of the challenges ahead. He said: "We have broken through the 100 mile barrier now which is great, but once I reach Teddington Lock the Thames becomes tidal and there's a whole new set of challenges. "The currents and undertows are very dangerous so I'll need to be strong."
Two medals won by late Welsh football great John Charles during his time in Italy have sold at auction for £8,200. One which was given to him for helping Juventus to the Italian league title in 1960, fetched £5,800 and the other went for £2,400 at the sale in Hull. The Swansea-born player, who died in 2004, is regarded as one of Wales' greatest players. He joined Juventus for £65,000 in 1957, winning three championships and the Italian cup in five years at the club. Charles, known as the Gentle Giant, also played for Leeds, Cardiff and Roma and represented Wales at the World Cup in Sweden in 1958. A medal presented to him for winning the Italian league in 1958 sold at auction last year for £8,880. 'Stellar career' Wednesday's auction was staged by Gilbert Baitson in Hull. Cultural historian and football fan Prof Peter Stead, from Swansea, met Charles several times. He said: "John Charles was one of the greatest British players ever. "He was the best in the world at his time and he was a big star in Italy. "He was one of the most important people in Italian football and was voted the best player in Italy. He was regarded by Juventus as one of their greatest forwards ever." Charles left his home city of Swansea to sign for Leeds at the age of 17 and settled in Leeds after his football career was over. "It was absolutely a stellar career," added Mr Stead. "He was a great athlete, a remarkable footballer and a lovely man and we should not forget that either."
A Bangladeshi student claims to have uncovered a scam in the city of Barisal to increase the weight of hilsa fish so that they become more expensive. Police say the fishmonger accused of the fraud has gone into hiding. Hilsa is a much sought-after Bengali delicacy: the Indian PM on a recent visit to Dhaka said that he was tempted to give up vegetarianism to eat it. Bangladeshi traders export large quantities of Hilsa fish to neighbouring India and Western Europe. Masraful Islam Shaikat alleges that the glass balls were deliberately put inside the fish to make them heavier. "I bought six hilsa fish from a fishmonger in the Barisal market and asked another man to cut them. "To our surprise, we found 20 marbles in one fish and another 15 in the second one," Mr Shaikat, who is a student of Barisal Medical College, told the BBC. "Initially, we thought the fish might have swallowed the marbles accidentally, but the high number of marbles triggered our suspicions. "I think the fishmonger was greedy and he deliberately stuffed them inside the fish to increase its weight." Hilsa is normally sold for around $9 (Â£6) a kg and traders say if the weight of an individual fish crosses a kg, then the price doubles. Mr Shaikat has lodged a complaint with the Barisal traders' association. The association says it is taking action against the fishmonger. "This is totally unacceptable and this incident has tarnished our image. We have filed a complaint with the police against the seller for indulging in an unlawful method to boost his profits," Nizam Hossain Tutul of the Barisal Fish Traders' Association told the BBC. Mr Shaikat says he ate the hilsa with his family - minus the marbles - and they tasted "normal".
Fiji's private press has been under intense scrutiny since the government introduced a controversial media decree in 2010. Under the decree, media outlets and journalists who fall foul of the media authority, which rules on what is and is not in the "public interest", face penalties. Although an amendment in 2015 meant that journalists could no longer be fined for breaching rules, editors and media organizations are still at risk of heavy financial penalties and jail. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) says the decree has clearly had an impact on the news industry by "promoting a climate of self-censorship". It also limits foreign ownership of media outlets. Radio is a key source of information, particularly on the outer islands. There are public and privately-owned stations. The BBC broadcasts on 88.2 FM in Suva. Internet usage has risen rapidly in recent years, reaching 325,717 by June 2014 (InternetLiveStats). Fiji Times - private, main English-language daily Fiji Sun - private The Jet - English-language monthly Sartaj - Hindi-language weekly Shanti Dut - Hindi-language weekly Fiji TV - operates national free-to-air Fiji 1 and pay-TV service Sky Fiji Mai TV - commercial, free-to-air FBC TV - free-to-air Fiji Broadcasting Corporation - state-owned commercial company, operates Fijian-language Radio Fiji One, Hindi-language Radio Fiji Two, music-based Bula FM, Hindi station Mirchi FM, music-based 2day FM amd Gold FM. It also launched television channel FBC TV in 2012
The fossilised remains of 6m (20ft) -long extinct crocodile relatives have been discovered in a mine in Colombia. The massive croc would have lived at the same time as the world's largest-known snake and may even have competed with it for food. The remains were discovered in the Cerrejon mine of northern Colombia, one of the world's largest open-pit coal mines. A US team has described the specimens in the journal Palaeontology. The freshwater creature, named Acherontisuchus guajiraensis, inhabited an ancient rainforest ecosystem some 60 million years ago, during Palaeocene times. The environment was dominated by reptiles, including giant snakes, turtles and crocodiles. This is the second crocodile relative excavated from the Cerrejon mine. Temperatures at this time were much higher than today, and scientists say that studying the diversity of animals in this ecosystem could help them understand the impacts of a warmer climate in the future. It lived alongside a giant snake known as Titanoboa, which is thought to have grown to about 13m (42ft) in length. The scientists say that A. guajiraensis was specialised for eating fish, which means it probably would have competed for food with Titanoboa. "The younger individuals were definitely not safe from Titanoboa, but the biggest of these species would have been a bit much for the [13m] 42-foot snake to handle," said lead author Alex Hastings, from the Florida Museum of Natural History. The new species belongs to a group of crocs known as dyrosaurids, believed to be primarily ocean-dwelling, coastal reptiles. The researchers say the new adult specimens challenge previous theories that the animals would only have entered freshwater environments as babies before returning to the sea. The croc was comparable in size with the largest examples of living crocodiles and alligators today.
The murder of a Pakistani politician in north London a year ago was "carefully planned", Scotland Yard has said, as it offered a £20,000 reward for details. Dr Imran Farooq was stabbed outside his home in Green Lane, Edgware, last year. His killers may have had help from other people, some of whom could have assisted unwittingly, police added. An e-fit image of a suspect wearing a baseball cap has been released. A man aged 34 who was questioned last year has been bailed until this November. Dr Farooq, who was a senior member of the MQM party, was killed "in a brutal manner", said Det Ch Supt Neil Basu of the Metropolitan Police. His death, on 16 September 2010, "has left the community with a deep sense of loss", he added. The 50-year-old suffered multiple wounds and blunt trauma to the head. Police have previously said he may have been followed by up to four Asian men in vehicles or on foot. Officers are asking for information about Dr Farooq, who came to the UK in 1999 seeking political asylum, and his routine. They also want to talk to anyone asked to help buy items which could have been used in the attack, of the planning of it, such as knives or mobile phones. It is thought two kitchen knives were used in the attack, along with a brick from a house. One of the knives was made by Ausbein Messer, with a 5in (13cm) blade, and the other was branded as Schinken Messer, with a 5.5in (14cm) blade.
A British soldier who was shot dead while on patrol in Afghanistan has been named by the Ministry of Defence. Lance Corporal Jonathan McKinlay, of Gloucestershire-based 1st Battalion The Rifles, was killed by small arms fire on Wednesday. L/Cpl McKinlay, 33, from Darlington, was based at Check Point Chaabak in the Nahr-e-Saraj South district of Helmand. A total of 381 British troops have been killed in Afghanistan since military operations began in 2001. L/Cpl McKinlay had been on patrol in a village with his team and members of the Afghan police when he was killed. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) said he deployed to Afghanistan in June. Commanding officer Lt Col James de Labilliere said: "To anyone who met him, Lance Corporal Jon McKinlay made an instant impression. "On the one hand a hard professional soldier who demanded the very highest standards from himself and his men and yet on the other a man of great compassion, humour and somebody who had time for others. "He had irrepressible energy and was industrious to the core." L/Cpl McKinlay was married with one daughter and two step-children. His wife Lisa said: "He was a true friend to others and a loving husband, a real joker and my one in a million." L/Cpl McKinlay joined the Army in 1996 and had previously been deployed to Northern Ireland, Iraq and Afghanistan. Defence Secretary Liam Fox said: "I was very saddened to learn of the death of Lance Corporal Jonathan McKinlay whilst serving in Afghanistan. "Throughout the 15 years he served in the Army he showed great professionalism and commitment."
Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini says Carlos Tevez must wait for his chance to get back into the team. Tevez, who missed a penalty against Wigan last Saturday, was back on the bench for the midweek Champions League game against Napoli. Mancini insists that Tevez, who failed to secure a summer move away from the club, must accept the situation. "In this moment there are players that are better than him but Carlos is here training," he said. "Carlos will have a chance to play. I don't know if he is happy but every player that can't play is not happy. This is normal. "He will have his moment." The form of fellow strikers Edin Dzeko and Sergio Aguero, who have scored six league goals apiece so far this season, mean that the 27-year-old Argentina international's chances have been limited, while Mario Balotelli has also played just one league game. But Mancini believes his free-scoring side still need to be more ruthless in front of goal than neighbours and arch-rivals Manchester United, who have scored 18 goals - three more than City - in their first four Premier League games. When City underlined their title credentials with a 5-1 win at Tottenham last month, United bettered them with a 8-2 victory over Arsenal. Mancini's men impressed again by beating Wigan 3-0 last week, only for United to hammer Bolton 5-0. The Italian said: "Man United are a top team - they have been used to winning for a long time. They have strong players. "When they played against Arsenal, when they scored two or three goals, they continued trying to score. "We need to have this mentality. If we have a game like Tottenham where we can score, we need to continue to try to play."
South Korea's president has promised $89m (Â£56m) in state funds to revive the country's reputation as a world leader in stem cell research. In his regular radio address, Lee Myung-bak described the field as a "new growth engine" for the economy. The announcement comes five years after a damaging scandal, when it was found a cloning pioneer had faked research. Analysts say Mr Lee's pledge belies concerns that South Korea could fall far behind fast-moving rival nations. The president said South Korea alongside the US had been a world leader in stem cell research a decade ago. "Unfortunately, there was a disappointing incident which caused inevitable damage to the entire stem cell research community in Korea," he said, referring to the conviction of Hwang Woo-suk. Hwang's claims he had succeeded in creating human embryonic stem cells by cloning raised hopes of finding cures for diseases such as Alzheimer's, until revelations that his work was bogus. The controversy caused shockwaves in South Korea, where the scientist had been widely regarded as a national hero. As Seoul's stem cell programme faltered, other nations streamlined regulations and aggressively expanded funding for research, Mr Lee said. "We must restore our national fame as a stem cell powerhouse," he said, adding the government would ease regulations and establish a state stem cell bank. Scientists believe stem cells could be used as a super "repair kit" for the body, generating healthy tissue to replace that damaged by trauma or compromised by disease. Among the conditions which scientists believe may eventually be treated by stem cell therapy are Parkinson's disease, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, diabetes, burns and spinal cord damage.
A permanent home for the last Concorde to fly could be set up on the northern edge of Filton Airfield near Bristol, the BBC has learned. The plan involves a new building to house the Concorde with a museum in two neighbouring World War I hangars. Plans for a museum at nearby Cribbs Causeway stalled after a bid to the Heritage Lottery Fund was turned down. Filton Airfield, which is owned by BAE Systems, is due to close in 2012. BBC Radio Bristol's political reporter Robin Markwell said the new centre would be on land just off a new link road between Filton and Cribbs Causeway - bordering the northern edge of the airfield - which opened in 2010. He said the plan included a science and technology centre which would train engineers from local universities. Plans for funding it have not yet been announced. It would also require planning permission from South Gloucestershire Council. Concorde 216, or Alpha Foxtrot, was the last of the fleet to fly when Concorde was withdrawn from service by British Airways in 2003. It is currently on the opposite side of the runway at the airfield, where it formed part of an open-air exhibit which closed in 2010. Andrew Cheeseman, from BAE Systems, said new plans for Concorde would be announced "in the near future".
Masked robbers posing as policemen have stormed a safe deposit centre in the Paris suburb of Orly, killing one guard and injuring two others. After blocking the street with a burning car, they blew in the door of the centre, before blowing open the strong box inside, French media say. When police arrived to investigate the car fire, they fled, apparently empty-handed, firing machine-guns. A police representative described the gang as a "real combat unit". Luc Poignant, from police trade union Unite-SGP Police, told Le Parisien newspaper that a safe deposit centre had not been targeted for several years, and Wednesday's assault took armed robbery "up a rung". The gang, said to number between four and six people and dressed in police "night intervention" dress, struck at 05:55 (03:55 GMT) as security guards were changing shifts at the centre, used by the security company Temis. One of the guards behind the door had his legs blown off by the first explosion and died, while another two were injured by the blast wave. Other guards took refuge inside the centre. When police arrived about five minutes after the robbery began, the gang exchanged fire with them using assault rifles, before fleeing to the A6 motorway in two cars. At one point, they seized a passer-by as a hostage but released him unharmed after 10 minutes. Following the robbery attempt, police sealed off a large area of Orly, deploying forensics and sapper teams, Le Parisian adds.
Wrexham have put striker Andy Morrell in temporary charge following the departure of Dean Saunders. Saunders has left Wrexham after three years to succeed Sean O'Driscoll at Doncaster Rovers. Morrell will be in charge for Saturday's Blue Square Bet Premier game at Grimsby. "I spoke to the directors on arriving at Colliers Park this morning and they have asked if I would take on the first team affairs," said Morrell. Doncaster-born Morrell is in his second spell at the Racecourse after being re-signed by Saunders in June 2010. The 35-year-old had originally joined the north Wales club from non-league side Newcastle Blue Star in 1998. Morrell left the Racecourse to join Coventry City on a free transfer in 2003 before spells with Blackpool and Bury. "I'm only too happy to help out," Morrell told Wrexham's official website. "It's come a little bit earlier than I was planning but you can't turn down such an opportunity, they don't arise too often "I feel I still have plenty to offer as a player and this will also allow me to see what life is like on the other side of the fence." Morrell will be assisted by coaches Brian Carey and Michael Oakes for Saturday's trip to Grimsby Town. Morrell scored a record seven goals for Wrexham in a FAW Premier Cup tie against Merthyr Tydfil Saunders succeeded Brian Little as Dragons boss in October 2008 but Morrell said the job at Doncaster was one which the former Wales striker could not refuse. "Personally I can only wish him well at Doncaster and thank him for all the help he has given me," said Morrell. "But it's fantastic for him to get such an opportunity and it also reflects well on our club. "
A bus company has apologised after a partially sighted war veteran was repeatedly ignored at a bus stop. Joseph Munroe, 98, from North Shields is registered blind, and lives alone. He claims that his local service refused to pick him up claiming he was abusing his bus pass. A Nexus spokesperson said: "We're very sorry for the experience Mr Munroe has had. If there is a particular problem with a driver, we want it sorting out quickly." He added: "We've been in contact with the bus company that provide this service on our behalf to make sure in the future Mr Munroe is always picked up." The problems occurred on the 333, a service in North Shields which runs in a loop. Mr Munroe said he sometimes boarded the bus in the wrong direction when it was cold in order to stay warm. He said a driver then told him, "you're not coming on this bus, wait for the next one", and that since then the bus had driven past him at the bus stop. Mr Munroe said: "I'm speaking to Nexus myself to get this sorted. "First one driver told me I couldn't get on, so I called up and made a complaint, and now [two] drivers on the route have told me I'm barred."
Prosecutors in Mexico say the decapitated body of a woman found in the northern city of Nuevo Laredo on Saturday is that of a newspaper editor. The body of Maria Elizabeth Macias, the editor of Primera Hora newspaper, was found next to a threatening message. The police said the message had been left by a criminal gang. Two weeks ago, the bodies of a man and a woman were hung from a bridge with a message warning people not to report drug violence on social networks. Deadly profession Ms Macias' body was found early on Saturday in a busy area of Nuevo Laredo, in northern Tamaulipas state. A message left next to her remains accused her of denouncing drug violence on social networks and websites, such as Nuevo Laredo en Vivo, or Nuevo Laredo Live, where citizens can leave messages pointing the security forces to the locations where gangs congregate and sell drugs. A message left on a pedestrian bridge in Nuevo Laredo from which two people were strung up on 13 September also warned people not to report crimes on such sites. That message had been signed with the letter "Z", usually associated with the Zetas cartel. Tamaulipas has been at the centre of a bloody turf war between the Zetas and their former allies turned bitter rivals, the Gulf cartel. Beheadings have become a common feature of many murders carried out by the Zetas, aimed at terrorising rivals and those who they consider snitches. The US-based journalists' welfare group Committee to Protect Journalists says 59 journalists have been killed in Mexico since 1992. It says 25 of those were murdered in direct reprisal for their work.
Bollywood film Lagaan (Land Tax), which won an Oscar nomination, has been included in a list of the 25 best sports movies by Time magazine. Starring Aamir Khan, Lagaan tells the story of  peasants who challenge their British rulers to a game of cricket in order to escape a punitive tax. Time magazine said it was the "longest and the most enthralling underdog sports movie ever". The film is one of the biggest Bollywood hits of all time. Lagaan's music was composed by Indian composer AR Rahman, who also won Oscars for his soundtrack to 2009's multi-award-winning Slumdog Millionaire. "From the thunderclap in the first torrential rainstorm - a cue for riotous dancing - to the climactic sunlight on the smiling faces of millions of viewers, this Bollywood epic is cause for joy of meteorological proportions," Time magazine said of the 224-minute film. The magazine said that Lagaan, directed by Ashutosh Gowariker, has the "capability to win over Bollywood newcomers - to turn snickers into smiles, indulgence to rapture". Time praised the the film's "masala mix of melodrama and character comedy" and its music. "As sports film, social document or communal ecstasy, Lagaan is the all-time all-rounder," the magazine said. Lagaan is the only Indian movie in the list which is led by Coen Brothers' The Big Lebowski.
A senior Roman Catholic leader has hit out at Italy's political class, saying the country needs to "purify the air" of sex and corruption scandals. Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco told fellow bishops it was "mortifying" to witness "sad and hollow" behaviour that damaged the country's image abroad. The cardinal did not specifically name Silvio Berlusconi in his speech. But the prime minister is facing four trials on charges including tax fraud and paying for sex with a minor. And the BBC's David Willey in Rome said everybody understood immediately who the cardinal was talking about. Mr Berlusconi denies the charges and says he intends to remain in post to the end of his term in 2013, despite recent newspaper allegations that he was recorded boasting in a phone call that 11 women were queuing up to have sex with him. Cardinal Bagnasco, head of the Italian Bishops Conference, said Italians had been left in a state of "dumbfounded astonishment" by their political class. It was enmeshed in scandal and preoccupied with self-preservation, while the rest of the country suffered from a deep economic crisis, he said. Politicians had a responsibility to live a moral life and set a good example because their behaviour had "undeniable effects on culture and education" and influenced the young and impressionable, the cardinal added.
Tottenham midfielder Tom Huddlestone requires an operation on his ankle, manager Harry Redknapp has confirmed. Media playback is not supported on this device The 24-year-old has made four appearances for Spurs this season, the most recent of which as a second-half substitute in the 5-1 home defeat against Manchester City on 28 August. Ahead of Thursday's Europa League match against Shamrock Rovers, Redknapp said: "He needs another operation. "He has already had one but there is still a problem with him. It's a blow." Huddlestone has established himself as a key figure in the Spurs set-up in recent years, following his move to White Hart Lane from Derby in July 2005. He made more starts than any other outfield player in all competitions in the 2009-10 season as Tottenham finished fourth in the Premier League to qualify for the Champions League for the first time. Writing about the his injury on Twitter, Huddlestone said: "Thanks for the supportive msgs [messages], I will do everything I can to be fully fit asap. Once the op is complete I will have a better idea of time." Huddlestone won the first of his three England caps in November 2009 against Brazil and was named in manager Fabio Capello's provisional World Cup squad last summer, only to not make the final cut.
A £40m investment to produce power from sewage from 300,000 homes is opening at a Cardiff water treatment works. The new technology at Welsh Water's plant in Tremorfa will produce electricity for onsite use. It captures gas from wastewater and will cut the company's reliance on the national grid by 45% and produce 75% of the gas it needs at Tremorfa. Welsh Water said the anaerobic digestion (AD) unit was one of the largest of its kind in Europe. It is part of a £75m investment by the company in renewable energy sources at its own facilities to reduce its carbon footprint. Chairman Robert Ayling said: "We have invested heavily for more than a decade in wastewater treatment to bring widespread environmental benefits, including vastly improved water quality in our rivers and on the coastline of Wales. "However, the downside is that the water industry is very energy-intensive, which has been reflected in our £30m annual bill." Welsh Water is investing £30m on a similar AD facility at its Afan Wastewater Works in Port Talbot. Mr Ayling added: "We will focus on energy efficiency and produce our own sustainable energy where we can, thereby reducing our reliance on power from fossil fuels while also cutting costs and helping to keep down customers' bills. "The Cardiff Wastewater Works is itself a £220m investment in delivering great benefit by improving coastal waters, and the opening of this AD Facility is a leap forward in our strategy to benefit the environment further." First Minister Carwyn Jones is at the official opening.
A judge in Brazil has ordered a halt to construction of a multi-billion-dollar dam project in the Amazon region. Judge Carlos Castro Martins barred any work that would interfere with the natural flow of the Xingu river. He ruled in favour of a fisheries group which argued that the Belo Monte dam would affect local fish stocks and could harm indigenous families who make a living from fishing. The government says the dam is crucial to meeting growing energy needs. Judge Martins barred the Norte Energia company behind the project from "building a port, using explosives, installing dikes, building canals and any other infrastructure work that would interfere with the natural flow of the Xingu river, thereby affecting local fish stocks". Legal battle He said the building of canals and dikes could have negative repercussions for river communities living off small-scale fishing. The judge said building work currently underway on accommodation blocks for the project's many workers could continue as it would not interfere with the flow of the river. The consortium behind the project is expected to appeal against the decision. In June, the Brazilian environment agency backed the construction, dismissing concerns by environmentalists and indigenous groups who argue that it will harm the world's largest tropical rainforest and displace tens of thousands of people. The agency, Ibama, said the dam had been subjected to "robust analysis" of its impact on the environment. The 11,000-megawatt dam would be the third biggest in the world - after the Three Gorges in China and Itaipu, which is jointly run by Brazil and Paraguay.
President: Joko Widodo Joko Widodo won a closely fought presidential election in July 2014 on promises to break with the authoritarian past, improve welfare for the poor and take on corruption. The election commission declared the Jakarta governor the winner with 53% of the vote. His rival, former army general Prabowo Subianto, who won 47%, alleged widespread fraud and said he would challenge the result in court. Mr Widodo is seen by many as relatively untainted by the county's endemic corruption and in touch with ordinary Indonesians as a result of his humble background. Known as "Jokowi", the former furniture maker is especially popular with the urban and rural young. His campaign platform called for "mind-set revolution" to end the corruption, nepotism and intolerance Mr Widodo believes flourished during the 31-year-long dictatorship of former President Suharto. He also promised a strong focus on education and modern technology, including e-governance. Critics said he lacked political experience and would struggle to push through his agenda, as his Indonesian Democratic Party-Struggle (PDI-P), has only 37% of seats in parliament. Opponents claimed he would be the puppet of the PDI-P's veteran leader, Megawati Sukarnoputri, a former president and daughter of Indonesia's independence leader, Sukarno. Mr Widodo's allies insist he will be his own man. Born in 1961 in Solo as the son of a wood-seller, Mr Widodo was elected mayor of Solo - a city in the centre of Java - in 2005 and gained popularity with policies aimed at boosting small and local businesses. Mr Widodo then went on to run for the position of governor of Jakarta, winning an emphatic victory in 2012.
Researchers have trawled through more than half a billion messages on Twitter, looking for changes in people's mood across days and seasons. They said people start off brightly in the morning, but mood deteriorates throughout the day until a boost late in the evening. Unsurprisingly, they found people tended to be happier on Saturdays and Sundays than during the working week. Changes in the hours of daylight also had an effect. It has been difficult for scientists to investigate changes in mood. The authors of this study argue that traditional laboratory tests are limited as they are based on university students self-reporting their mood. Some academics have begun looking at social networking sites to gather data on a wider and more diverse group of people. The team at Cornell University, New York, argued that monitoring Twitter provides a real-time reflection of mood. They looked at messages from 2.4 million people's public tweets from 84 countries and used language detection software to score positive and negative feelings. Positive feelings started high, but began to fall in mid-morning and then picked up again in the evening. Generally, positive words appeared more at the weekend than during the week. However, the researchers say work is not necessarily to blame as the shift in mood pattern "was similar on weekends and weekdays" which instead "points to sleep and the biological clock" as the cause. Negative feelings were lowest in the morning and increased throughout the day. The researchers said: "This pattern also suggests that people may be emotionally refreshed by sleep." Researchers said day length affected positive tweets, but not negative ones suggesting "that winter blues is associated with diminished positive affect but not increased negative affect".
Hundreds of toys which were once on display in a Gloucestershire museum have been sold at auction for £50,000. George and Barbara Sutton closed the Park House Toy and Collectors' Museum in Stow-on-the-Wold in June due to ill health and a move to Berkshire. The auction's most expensive item, a Dean's Rag Book Company "Tru-to-Life" bear from the 1950s, sold for £900. Auctioneer Phillip Allwood, from Moore Allen and Innocent, said the collection attracted global interest from bidders. "We had about 200 bears and not one the same - that was the one of the unusual things about this sale," added Mr Allwood. Other lots included a Walkure bisque doll which sold for £500, a Pelham Puppet Theatre which also sold for £500 and a quantity of cake decorations which were valued at less than £80 but  sold for £480. The museum closed in June bringing to an end the public display of thousands of individual teddy bears, dolls, puppets, train sets, model cars and tin soldiers. "It's heart breaking to see the empty rooms, our collection was nearly 25 years in the making," said Mrs Sutton. The couple originally travelled the country buying toys as an extension to their antiques business but the museum became the core-activity as the collection quickly grew.
Negative effects of climate change could cost Canada the equivalent of 1% of its GDP by 2050 and 2.5% by 2075, a government-backed report has said. Damage could reach C$41bn ($20bn; Â£27bn), estimates say, depending on global emissions, the economy and population growth. Higher temperatures could kill forests, flood low-lying coastal areas and spread disease, the report said. The panel denied that Canada would gain from global warming. "Climate change presents a growing, long-term economic burden for Canada," said Canada's National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy (NRTEE). In a 162-page report, measures proposed included enhanced forest fire protection, pest control and an effort to foster the growth of climate-resilient trees. The panel also recommended limiting construction in in low-lying coastal areas vulnerable to flooding, and developing technologies to limit pollution and slow ozone accumulation. It said climate-related costs to Canada could increase from C$5bn in 2020 to between C$21bn and C$43bn by 2050. These figures depended on co-ordinated global action to limit warming to 2C by 2050, the report said. The findings of the panel were seized on by opposition politicians who believe the Conservative government should be doing more to confront the threat of global warming. "Our coastal communities, our forestry industry, and the health of Canadians will all suffer unless we take action right now," said Laurin Liu, of the New Democrats, Canada's main opposition party. "This out-of-touch government has produced no plan to deal with the impact of climate change," he added. But Environment Minister Peter Kent said Canada needs "a strong, stable, environmentally responsible ... government to take care of the environment, and that is exactly what we are doing". The report also said Canada had much to gain from an international, Kyoto-style treaty focussing on cutting carbon emissions beyond 2012.
Russell Brand will be the first guest on Rosie O'Donnell's new chat show, to be aired on Oprah Winfrey's TV channel. The Oprah Winfrey Network said he would be "one of many notable celebrities" to appear in the show's first fortnight. The new show, which will be broadcast from 10 October, will be filmed at Chicago's Harpo Studios, which was home to The Oprah Winfrey Show for 25 years. O'Donnell's previous daytime chat show, which ran from 1996 to 2002, won a series of Emmy Awards. Earlier this week, in an interview for entertainment news programme Access Hollywood, O'Donnell said Brand was "100% my celebrity crush". "I became fascinated with him and I Googled everything he ever did and I fell madly in love - I became obsessed," she added. She said she had since seen him at Los Angeles airport and told him: "I have been marinating in you, I knew this would happen, you are genius." Winfrey unveiled a plaque at Harpo Studios earlier this month to welcome The Rosie Show to the building. Brand, who has set up his own production company, Branded Films, will star in a movie version of West End and Broadway musical Rock of Ages, due for release next year.
Comedian Steve Martin has won the top award at the International Bluegrass Music Association Awards in Nashville. Banjo player Martin and his band The Steep Canyon Rangers were named entertainers of the year on Thursday. "I want to thank all the other nominees ... for losing," said Martin, accepting the award at the Ryman auditorium. Supergroup The Boxcars took the biggest haul of the night, winning four awards, including emerging artist and instrumental group of the year. It was the first Bluegrass Music Association award for Martin, who took up the banjo as a teenager. "It really means a lot, sort of like winning two Oscars," said Martin, who has never won an Oscar. "It's something we work very hard at, and I kind of started from scratch. "I've been playing banjo for 50 years, but performing in a band I've never done. The hardest part was talking and tuning." Unfamiliar An author, actor and stand-up comedian, the 66-year-old released his first album with the Rangers in 2009. The Crow: New Songs for the Five-String Banjo subsequently won a Grammy Award. It was the second Grammy win for Martin, having contributed to  Foggy Mountain Breakdown in 2001, a collaboration with legendary banjo picker Earl Scruggs. Three-time Oscar host Martin, best known for his roles in films including The Jerk, Planes, Trains and Automobiles and Roxanne, is credited with bringing bluegrass music to a wider audience. "When I play a concert hall somewhere I know half the audience isn't even familiar with bluegrass," Martin said, before the awards. "That way we really reach a really wide audience for this music [that] I love, and that I love listening to."
A former west Belfast linen mill has won a UK-wide award for its successful regeneration. The Conway Mill Preservation Trust was presented with the honour at the Regeneration and Renewal Awards in London on Thursday night. Conway Mill, on the Falls Road, fell into neglect and vandalism during the Troubles before the regeneration project started in 1996. Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness opened the newly restored mill in 2010. It is now home to 16 business units, artists studios and space for community groups and plans are in place for 100 jobs to be created over the next four years. The award was for the best use of a heritage building in a regeneration project. Jim Neeson, the chairman of the Conway Mill Preservation Trust, collected the award. "For the mill, the trustees, committees and local community, it is fantastic for the project to be recognised," he said. "We must give credit to The Prince's Regeneration Trust as we couldn't have done it without them. It really shows what a community can do when it puts its mind to it." Chief executive of The Prince's Regeneration Trust, Ros Kerslake, said she was "proud" of the trust's involvement in "particularly challenging" project. "We are delighted that the work at Conway Mill has been recognised and celebrated. "Conway Mill is a huge success we often refer back to it as a blue print for local people everywhere who are concerned to bring a much-loved historic building back into use."
An explosion outside a Turkish military police headquarters near the Mediterranean resort of Antalya has left one person dead, officials say. Two others were wounded in the attack in Goynuk, on the city's outskirts, Deputy Governor Recep Yuksel said. Local media suggest a suicide bomber triggered the blast as he approached a checkpoint outside the building. Kurdish, leftist and Islamic militants have carried out bomb attacks in Turkey in the past. Last week a suspected car bomb killed at least three people in Ankara. Mr Yuksol told the state-run Anatolia news agency that the cause of the latest blast remained unclear, as was the identity of the dead person. The explosion happened far from any tourist area, he said. Reports suggested it damaged several cars and smashed windows of nearby buildings. "Two people who were nearby were lightly wounded," added Mr Yuksol. An investigation is under way. There have been several bomb attacks in Turkey's main cities in recent years, many blamed on the Kurdish insurgent movement, the PKK. Turkey has responded with a police crackdown on suspected rebel sympathisers and air strikes on Kurdish sites in northern Iraq. The Kurdistan Freedom Hawks, a militant group connected to the PKK, claimed responsibility for last week's Ankara car bombing and threatened further attacks.
A paranoid schizophrenic who killed a former neighbour and went missing from his secure unit in Sussex has handed himself in to police. Steven Dunne, 42, failed to return to Southview Low Secure Unit, Hellingly, at 17:00 BST on Wednesday. After a police appeal on Saturday, Dunne later went into Bootle Street police station in Manchester, where he is in custody. Dunne will return to hospital under a higher level of security. Earlier, in their appeal, Sussex Police had said they believed he had gone to Manchester because he had family links in the city. In November 2010, Dunne admitted the manslaughter of Gordon Stalker, 51, on the grounds of diminished responsibility and was detained indefinitely. Sussex Police said the level of security he was originally detained under was approved by the Ministry of Justice. After Dunne handed himself in, Lisa Rodrigues, chief executive of Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We were concerned for Mr Dunne's welfare and we worked closely with Sussex Police throughout their investigation." The NHS trust had said Dunne posed a "low risk" after he was reported missing. During the court case, Dunne, formerly of Chates Farm Court, Brighton, told Lewes Crown Court he believed Mr Stalker was controlling his mind and he could only be freed by killing him. The pair were neighbours in a shared house in Elm Grove, Brighton, where they were friends and often socialised together. But Dunne's mental health deteriorated and he began to believe that Mr Stalker was a witch who had captured his soul. He stabbed Mr Stalker repeatedly in their communal hallway. The judge ordered him to be detained under the Mental Health Act.
The leader of India's governing Congress party, Sonia Gandhi, has made her first public appearance after returning from the US following surgery for an undisclosed medical condition. Mrs Gandhi attended a prayer meeting to mark the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi, India's revered independence hero. Mrs Gandhi holds no government post but holds enormous political power. The 64-year-old Italian-born politician is seen as a key decision-maker in the government. Correspondents say the Indian government faced serious problems during her month-long absence. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's government was severely criticised for mishandling anti-corruption protests in August by social activist Anna Hazare. Many commentators said that if Mrs Gandhi had been in Delhi, she would have handled the situation better. The party has consistently refused to comment on the nature of the illness or where she went for surgery. But media reports have suggested she was treated at a specialist cancer hospital in New York. Mrs Gandhi is the widow of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. She nominated Manmohan Singh to the prime minister's post in 2004 but is frequently portrayed as being more powerful than him. She is at the head of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, which has ruled India for most of the time since independence in 1947. Her son and MP Rahul Gandhi is tipped as a future prime minister.
A senior leader of Bangladesh's largest Islamic party is the first suspect charged by a tribunal probing the 1971 independence struggle against Pakistan. The war crimes tribunal accused Delawar Hossain Sayedee of mass murder and torture among other crimes. He denies all the allegations. Mr Sayedee, a leader in Bangladesh's Jamaat-e-Islami party, was arrested last year. The tribunal was set up in 2010 to try those accused of crimes during the war. Bangladesh was called East Pakistan until 1971 when a nine-month war of secession broke out leaving up to three million people dead. "The court has framed charges on 20 counts including crimes against humanity and genocide against Mr Sayedee," Mohammad Shahinur Islam, registrar of the International Crimes Tribunal, told the BBC. "He pleaded not guilty. He claimed all those allegations were false. "With the framing of charges the trial has started. As a citizen, I should say this is a historic day for Bangladesh," Mr Islam said. The case will be next heard on 30 October when the prosecution will make an opening statement. Official figures estimate that thousands of women were raped when West Pakistan sent in its army to try and stop East Pakistan becoming an independent Bangladesh. Last year, the Bangladeshi government set up the International Crimes Tribunal in Dhaka to try those Bangladeshis accused of collaborating with Pakistani forces and committing atrocities during months of violence. Mr Sayedee is among seven people, including two from the main opposition Bangladeshi Nationalist Party, facing trial. All of them deny the accusations and accuse the government of carrying out a vendetta. The New York-based Human Rights Watch says the tribunal needs to change some of its procedures to ensure a fair trial which meets international standards. The trial is likely to go on for months.
Three scientists who "revolutionised" understanding of how the body fights infection have shared this year's Nobel prize for medicine. Bruce Beutler, of the US, Jules Hoffmann from France and Ralph Steinman from Canada all shared the prize. Profs Beutler and Hoffman discovered how the body's first line of defence was activated. Prof Steinman discovered the dendritic cell, which helps defeat infection. The immune system can be broadly divided into two parts: innate and adaptive. The innate immune system is the immediate response and halts infection by destroying foreign microorganisms and triggering inflammation. In 1996, Prof Hoffmann discovered that a gene called "Toll" was essential for kick starting the innate system in fruit flies. Without the gene, the flies could not "sense" and then fight bacterial infection. An equivalent gene, Toll-like receptor, was found by Prof Beutler in 1998 in his study on mice. More than a dozen Toll-like receptors have since been found in humans. The adaptive immune system takes longer to activate, but clears the infection and can provide long lasting protection. Prof Steinman discovered, in 1973, the dendritic cell. He showed that it can act as a bridge between the two immune systems, deciding whether to activate the adaptive system. The Nobel prize committe said: "Together Bruce Beutler, Jules Hoffmann and Ralph Steinman have revoluntionised understanding of the immune system by discovering key principles for its activation. "They have opened up new avenues for prevention and therapy." Professor of clinical allergy research and panel member, Annika Scheynius, said: "We are definitely sure that these discoveries will lead to health improvement, mainly in the terms of new vaccines. "Different types of vaccines that are targetting the dentritic cells, meaning that we can improve the health of patients with cancer, inflammatory diseases, auto-immune diseases, asthma."
Scientists have created the world's smallest periodic table on a strand of hair at the University of Nottingham. An imaging microscope and a beam of accelerated ions were used to put the table on the hair, which belonged to chemistry professor Martyn Poliakoff. Scientists from the university's Nanotechnology and Nanoscience Centre said a million copies of the table could fit on a single post-it note. Guinness World Records has now confirmed it as the smallest ever made. Scientists created the complete and up-to-date table of elements by putting the strand inside an ion beam microscope. An image of the table was then "engraved" on to the hair by irradiating it with ions of gallium at huge speeds. The finished table was given to a delighted Prof Poliakoff, the brother of playwright and film director Stephen, as a birthday present. He said: "I am delighted. In my wildest nightmares I have never imagined being in the Guinness Book of Records, least of all in connection with my hair. "The fact that I am is a tribute to the university's Nanotechnology Centre." The etched table measures 100x50 microns, with one micron being a thousandth of a millimetre. Since 2008, Prof Poliakoff has presented The Periodic Table of Videos, a series of short online clips giving information about every element. The films have made him an unlikely internet "star" and he is currently on a lecture tour of Australia.
Network Rail has been fined £80,000 and ordered to pay costs of £32,000 after admitting causing a train to derail in Leicestershire. The East Midlands Trains service was travelling at 65mph (105 km/h) when it derailed at Barrow on Soar in Leicestershire in February 2008. The train derailed after an engineering works tipper lorry hit a footbridge. Leicester Crown Court heard the firm did not have a proper construction site safety assessment in place. A train driver had to be cut free from his cab after the bridge collapsed in the accident, but no-one else was hurt. A warning message had been sent out, but the Nottingham-to-Norwich passenger train was unable to stop in time. The tipper truck driver did not realise the height of his truck and had left the back of it raised in the air, the court heard. The train driver was trapped for two-and-a-half hours and suffered serious leg injuries. "Network Rail's poor planning and management of construction site safety at Barrow placed members of the travelling public a risk," Darren Anderson of the Office of Rail Regulation said. The court heard that the train driver "thought he would die" and still suffered from flashbacks. "It should never have happened and I would like to say sorry for the fact that it did happen," Network Rail spokesman Martin Frobisher said.
Fourteen people have been injured in clashes in eastern Saudi Arabia, state media say. They said the unrest in the province of Qatif late on Monday had been incited by "a foreign country", without elaborating. Saudi Arabia's minority Shia population is concentrated in the east, the scene of protests earlier this year. State media said eight of those wounded were security personnel and three were civilians. State news agency SPA quoted the interior ministry as saying that "a group of outlaws and rioters on motorbikes" had gathered in al-Awamia village near the city of Qatif, "carrying petrol bombs". The group was responsible for acts leading to "insecurity with incitement from a foreign country that aims to undermine the nation's security and stability", SPA reported. Saudi mentions of foreign meddling are normally veiled references to Iran, the region's main Shia power, observers say. In March, Saudi police opened fire to disperse protesters in Qatif, a day before planned countrywide anti-government protests. The protesters, from the Shia minority, were demanding the release of prisoners they said had been held without charge. Protests are illegal in Saudi Arabia, which has had an absolute monarchy since its unification in the 1930s. Rights groups have accused the police of beating protesters during previous rallies in Qatif. Shias make up about 10% of the population in Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has not seen protests on the same scale as other nations in the Middle East and North Africa during the so-called Arab Spring.
A medieval stately home in Kent needs a multimillion-pound facelift to help it remain open to the public, according to the National Trust. Knole House in Sevenoaks, which is owned by the trust, needs repair work to be carried out on crumbling walls and falling ceilings. The trust also wants to open new rooms to the public and build a conservation studio. Before work starts, visitors are being asked how the house could be improved. The National Trust has launched an online survey to find out which areas of the house people would like to have greater access to. Emma Slocombe, lead project manager, said: "When planning for the renovation work we realised there may also be many new opportunities available to us, such as opening new spaces and creating new experiences for visitors. "We are asking the public to help us decide how they would like our plans to develop." Built on the site of a medieval manor house, in 1456 Knole became the palace of Thomas Bourchier, the then Archbishop of Canterbury. Set in a 1,000-acre deer park, the palace was extended by subsequent archbishops until Henry VIII forced Archbishop Cranmer to hand it over to him. In 1604, Thomas Sackville, a cousin of Queen Elizabeth I, became the owner of Knole. Over 400 years the Sackville family amassed collections of furniture from royal palaces, paintings, textiles and other objects from around the world. Thomas Sackville's descendants live in the house today, which is one of England's largest private houses.
Workers at British Sugar in the East of England have accepted a pay offer after a union ballot revealed insufficient support for strike action. Unite's members at factories in Norfolk, Suffolk and Nottinghamshire had been asked to vote on a possible walk out over a 3.5% pay offer. The union had wanted 5.2%, the current rate of inflation, but has decided to "reluctantly" accept the pay deal. Of those who voted, 179 said no to industrial action and 135 said yes. Unite's regional officer, Tony Ellingford, said: "Our members have unhappily and reluctantly accepted the company's pay offer. "The decision was taken in the context of the grim economic climate that does not look like improving under the coalition government. "Our members did hold an industrial action ballot, but it was deemed that there was insufficient support, by a narrow margin, for such action." British Sugar said it had been in active pay negotiations with unions since March. "We have worked extremely hard to secure an offer that we firmly believe is fair and reasonable within the current economic conditions, and is above average pay awards in the external market place," a spokeswoman said. Members of the GMB Union accepted the pay offer, but members of Unite opted to conduct a ballot to vote on industrial action. The British Sugar plants are at Wissington and Cantley in Norfolk, Bury St Edmunds in Suffolk and Newark in Nottinghamshire.
A marketing campaign which branded North Northamptonshire as North Londonshire resulted in 10 houses being sold on a flagship housing development in Corby. The Â£660,000 campaign, which ran during 2010, has now ended. A total of 94 houses are occupied at Prior's Hall Park. Daniel Polak, the development's commercial project manager, said 10 of them had been sold due to the North Londonshire campaign. "Although 10 houses have been sold and that's a direct return on investment, the amount of awareness that was created by the campaign is unfathomable," he said. Mr Polak said they were pleased with the overall interest in Northamptonshire raised by the campaign. Prior's Hall Park, to the north-east of Corby, has planning permission for 5,100 houses. The developers anticipate that in 15 years it could have a population of 12,500. On Saturday, a party was held to mark the first anniversary of the first residents moving in. The North Londonshire marketing campaign was designed to attract more people from London to Corby, Kettering, Wellingborough and Rushden. There are no statistics for how many people have moved to other parts of North Northamptonshire because of the campaign. The campaign was originally meant to run for three years at a cost of Â£1.3m, but was reduced to one year because of the economic slowdown. Some local people objected to the North Northamptonshire concept. A Facebook group was set up called "Northamptonshire is NOT North Londonshire". The North Northants Development Company said the North Londonshire campaign was a success, producing media coverage which would have cost Â£300,000 to buy through advertising.
Shares in the internet portal firm Yahoo have leapt 10% on rumours that Microsoft is considering a second attempt at a takeover. Microsoft, which last bid in 2008, joins a host of other companies which are considering buying Yahoo, one of the internet's best-known brands. China's giant internet company Alibaba has already said it might buy Yahoo. Rumours of a bid from Vodafone also pushed shares in Blackberry maker, Research in Motion, 12% higher. Yahoo shares jumped 10.1% to close at $15.92 and Microsoft shares ended 2.2% higher at $25.89. Yahoo's current market value is $20bn (£13bn), compared with Microsoft's previous bid of around $45bn. Neither party has made any official comment. Microsoft is said to be divided as to whether it would make sense to mount such a bid. Reasons in favour include the ability to beat AOL as a competitor by creating a stronger web portal. Microsoft already has an agreement with Yahoo involving its Bing internet search engine, which powers Yahoo's search but gives 88% of advertising revenue back to Yahoo. Combing the two could give Yahoo 30% of the US search market, according to analysts. According to the latest figures from research firm comScore, Google has 64.8% of the US search market, Yahoo has 16.3% and Microsoft 14.7%. But Yahoo is seen as lacking in growth potential. Early last month, Yahoo fired its chief executive in a row over the company's future direction. It said last month that it had received "inbound interest" from a number of parties. Sid Parakh, analyst at fund firm McAdams Wright Ragen, told the Reuters news agency: "There are many reasons why this thing probably makes sense. "If you strip out the variety of assets Yahoo owns, you are pretty much paying nothing for the core business."
A poem to be written by Poet Laureate Carol Ann Duffy will go on display at Eton Manor in the Olympic Park. It will go on the wall at the Paralympic wheelchair tennis venue. During the Olympics, Eton Manor will have aquatic training pools on site. Ms Duffy was appointed the first female poet laureate in 2009. In March, 2012 organisers Locog said a line from Alfred Tennyson's Ulysses would be engraved as an installation at the park to inspire athletes. The line "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" will be set in the centre of the village. Alongside Ms Duffy, other poets who have been commissioned to write work for the park include Lemn Sissay, Jo Shapcott, Caroline Bird and John Burnside. London 2012: Latest Olympic news, sport, features and programmes from the BBC Ms Duffy said of the announcement, on National Poetry Day: "I'm delighted that poetry will be present in the Olympic Park and thrilled that my own contribution celebrates and remembers the history of this wonderful space." After the Games, the plan is to turn Eton Manor into a sports centre for tennis, five-a-side football and hockey, and able to host elite hockey games for up to 15,000 spectators. It is built on the site of a disused sports club. A war memorial there, to members who died in World Wars I and II, is being restored. The Olympic Park poetry commissions are part of a nationwide programme, Winning Words.
The World Conker Championships in Northamptonshire has been cancelled due to high winds. The annual competition at Ashton Conker Club has been called off after bad weather blighted efforts to set up marquees at the site in Polebrook near Oundle. About 300 competitors from 20 countries were set to take part in the championships on Sunday. John Hadman, secretary of the club, said: "It is very sad." Established in 1965, the championship attracts thousands of visitors every year who come to watch entrants from across the globe compete for the Conker Crown. Competitors from countries such as Sri Lanka, Turkey, America and Bangladesh were all expected to take part in the contest. But organisers decided to cancel the event for the first time in 46 years after high winds looked set to hit the site over the weekend. The championship committee are now trying to contact entrants by email and telephone to tell them the contest has been cancelled. "We just couldn't get the marquees or stalls up," Mr Hadman said. "We couldn't risk them blowing down on people." Mr Hadman said the event was too large to be staged indoors. An extraordinary meeting has been scheduled for November to discuss the future of the competition. "The future is in the balance," Mr Hadman said. "We want to carry on but the weather could be just as bad next year."
Actor Rowan Atkinson has told Newsbeat there won't be a new Mr Bean series because he doesn't want the character to "grow old". The 56-year old said: "I've always regarded Mr Bean as an ageless, timeless figure. "I don't want him to particularly grow old, and if I carry on playing him then he's going to get older, whether we like it or not. "I would like to remember Mr Bean how he was five or 10 years ago." The TV series came out in the 1980s and 1990s, with the final episode being screened in 2006. Rowan Atkinson developed the Mr Bean character while studying at university. The actor's latest film Johnny English Reborn is out in the UK now. It's the sequel to his 2003 hit Johnny English in which he plays a spoof James Bond type character. In the film Rowan Atkinson drives a fast car and carries out a few of the stunts. "There is a sequence in Hong Kong where I had to step over a 25-storey building drop, but I said 'no' to that as I do have a problem with vertigo," he revealed. "I'll do an occasional stunt, but the problem is the insurance people want you to turn up the next day and be OK to film."
A new church bell-ringing composition will bring in the new year as part of the Cultural Olympiad. Howard Skempton's Five Rings Triples will premiere at the All Saints Church in Kingston upon Thames, Surrey, as part of the New Music 20x12 project. Twenty new works - each 12 minutes in length - have been created which aim to capture the spirit of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The works feature a mixture of genres including opera, jazz and beatbox. A number of composers from the world of of contemporary classical music including Skempton, Mark-Anthony Turnage and Sally Beamish were commissioned as part of New Music 20x12. Premieres will take place across the UK at concert halls, arts centres, festivals and public spaces. Trafalgar Square will host XX/XY, an "East meets West fusion of new music", composed by Liz Liew and Andy Leung as part of the Chinese New Year celebrations, on 29 January. London 2012: Latest Olympic news, sport, features and programmes from the BBC Composer David Bruce's commission, Fire, which will be performed in the grounds of Salisbury Cathedral on 25 May, will feature a fire artist, an ensemble of horns and "a massed community chorus". The Warwick Arts Centre will premiere Ping! - a collaboration between composer Joe Cutler, the Coull String Quartet and the Fusion table tennis club which explores the sounds and rhythms created by the sports men and women - on 3 March. The project will culminate with the performance of all 20 pieces over the weekend of 13-15 July at London's Southbank Centre. All the works, which will be performed at least three times each in 2012, will be broadcast on BBC Radio 3 and released digitally.
Author Ruth Rendell has admitted that her famous creation, Ch Insp Reginald Wexford, is based on her. Appearing at The Times Cheltenham Literature Festival, she said: "However you look at it, he is me." Rendell, made a peer in 1997, said she gave Wexford many of her habits as well as her hatred of corporal punishment and a memory for birthdays. She also paid tribute to the late actor George Baker who played Wexford on TV series The Ruth Rendell Mysteries. The 80-year-old, from West Lavington, Wiltshire, died of pneumonia on Friday following a recent stroke. "Where would Wexford have been without George?" Rendell said. The actor had "made the popularity and the character - a lot of it was George," she added. "It was a marvellous achievement as an actor to make him more and better than the author intended," she told the festival. The Ruth Rendell Mysteries ran for 12 series in the 1980s and 1990s on ITV. She said that, like her, Wexford liked to walk around in London, read poetry and was tolerant - "but not of cruelty or indifference or callousness". Rendell's latest novel, The Vault, sees Wexford come out of retirement to try to crack an unsolved crime. Speaking to the BBC, Baker's daughter, Ellie, said her father "absolutely loved Wexford and he loved being Wexford... and he loved the whole thing. It was a joy to him." His third wife, Louie Ramsey, who died earlier this year, played his wife Dora in The Ruth Rendell Mysteries.
US academics Thomas Sargent and Christopher Sims have won the 2011 Nobel economics prize. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences cited "their empirical research on cause and effect in the macroeconomy". They had studied how economic policy, such as raising interest rates or cutting taxes, affects macroeconomic variables such as GDP and inflation. The award's official name is the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. It was not part of the original group of awards set out in Swedish chemist Alfred Nobel's 1895 will, but was established by Sweden's central bank, the Riksbank, in 1968. The five main prizes are in physics, chemistry, medicine, literature and peace. Thomas Sargent, 68, is a professor of economics at New York University. The academy pointed to his work examining the post-World War II era, when many countries initially tended to implement a high-inflation policy, but eventually introduced systematic changes in economic policy and reverted to a lower inflation rate. Christopher Sims, also 68, is a professor of economics and banking at Princeton University. The academy said he had developed a method based on "vector autoregression" to analyse how the economy is affected by temporary changes in economic policy and other factors -  for instance, the effects of an increase in the interest rate set by a central bank. Prof Sims said: "I think that the methods that I have used and that Tom has developed are essential to finding our way out of this mess." Peter Diamond, Dale Mortensen and Christopher Pissarides won the 2010 prize for their work on how regulation and policy affects jobs and wages.
Big Ben is leaning to one side and may eventually become unstable - but only in thousands of years, according to a newly revealed report. The tower leans 0.26 degrees to the north-west, putting it out of alignment by about 0.5m at its highest point. The lean was discovered when Transport for London commissioned a report, because the extension of the Jubilee Line passes under Parliament. Experts are unsure what is causing the tower to lean. But one theory is that the London clay on which the tower was built is drying out. Mike McCann, keeper of the great clock, told BBC London: "We have been monitoring it since 1999, so we've got some pretty good data. "Our resident expert believes it will be between 4,000 and 10,000 years before it becomes a problem. "So it's not significant today, but we do need to keep an eye on it." The 0.26 degree angle is one 16th of the Leaning Tower of Pisa's tilt. Mr McCann continued: "There's no real proof what has caused it. "But it is built on London clay and that can dry out and that can cause movement." There is no evidence the lean was caused by work on the Underground. Big Ben is the name of the bell contained within the Clock Tower, according to a spokeswoman at the Houses of Parliament. But in the recent years the tower, which was called St Stephen's Tower by Victorian journalists, has been known colloquially as Big Ben.
Clare Hollingworth, the British journalist who reported the beginning of World War II, is celebrating her 100th birthday in Hong Kong. Mrs Hollingworth happened to be making a trip across the border from Poland to Germany in August 1939, when she saw large numbers of military vehicles by the side of the road. This was ahead of the German invasion. While scoops do not get much bigger, it was the start of an illustrious career involving many other stories. In the Daily Telegraph on 29 August 1939, Hollingworth reported: "Today, I crossed the frontier between Polish and German Upper Silesia and spent several hours in Beuthen, Hindenburg and Gleiwitz. "The frontier is still closed to local traffic. Everywhere I saw signs of the most intense military activity. In the two miles between Hindenburg and Gleiwitz I was passed by 65 military despatch riders on motorcycles. The only cars to be seen were those belonging to the military." Mrs Hollingworth was born on the same day that Sun Yat-Sen and other revolutionaries overthrew the Qing dynasty in China. It seems fitting that a woman who would go on to report on many world events should have been born on such a newsworthy day. She knew both British intelligence officers and spies Donald McLean and Kim Philby when they defected to Russia. She travelled extensively reporting on Aden, the Vietnam war and Algeria. She interviewed the shah of Iran, and reported from Beijing during the demise of Chairman Mao Zedong among many other stories. Asked why it was important to her to be a reporter, she replied: "Because I just enjoyed it, nothing else." She still loves life, she said, and listened to the BBC World Service on the hour.
Hampshire and Thames Valley Police have merged two units in a cost-saving measure that could lead to redundancies, the forces have said. The two police authorities have signed an agreement to form one "information management unit" that would save Â£600,000 a year. The Thames Valley Police Federation said this raises questions about the possible amalgamation of whole forces. A police spokesperson said the unit would improve customer service. "Some services provided directly to the public will be improved by having a larger pool of staff to process their enquiries," he said. The unit, which will share and manage police data across the two forces, will be based in existing locations across Hampshire and Thames Valley. The spokesperson said: "The creation of the joint unit will reduce the total number of posts required to deliver information management for the two forces. "However, existing vacancies have been held open and it is anticipated that the new unit will be created with few, if any, redundancies." He added that the savings across the two forces would be met through "a shared management structure and streamlined processes". Graham Smith, from the Thames Valley Police Federation, said: "On a wider issue with so much collaboration taking place around the country there comes a point where questions have to be asked about the possibility of amalgamation of forces."
People who are genetically susceptible to heart disease can lower their risk by eating plenty of fruit and raw vegetables, a study suggests. It says five or more daily portions should be enough to counteract culprit versions of a gene on chromosome 9, thought to be possessed by a fifth of people of European ancestry. Healthy diets appeared to weaken its effect. The Canadian researchers investigated more than 27,000 people for their work. The findings were published in Plos Medicine journal. These participants came from from around the globe, including Europe, China and Latin America. The results suggest that individuals with high risk 9p21 gene versions who consumed a diet packed with raw vegetables, fruits and berries had a similar risk of heart attack as those with a low-risk variant of the same gene. Foods that count: Researcher Prof Sonia Anand, of McMaster University, said: "Our results support the public health recommendation to consume more than five servings of fruits or vegetables as a way to promote good health." The scientists, who also included staff from McGill University, say they now need to do more work to establish how diet might have this effect on genes. Judy O'Sullivan of the British Heart Foundation said the findings should serve as a reminder that while lifestyle and genes could increase heart risk, the way the two interacted with each other was also very important. "The relationship between the two is often very complicated and we don't yet have all the answers,  but the message appears to be very simple - eating lots of fruit and vegetables is great news for our heart health."
Katie Price has told the Oxford Union there is "no excuse for people to just get pregnant and stay at home". Price, who used to be known as Jordan, spoke to students about her career from glamour model to TV star. She also told the 1,000-strong crowd that she believes there needs to be tighter regulations on the media. Price followed in the footsteps of the Dalai Lama, Winston Churchill and, more recently, Pamela Anderson, when she spoke in the debating chamber. The 33-year-old told students: "I come from a family that has had to work to earn a living. "It doesn't matter if you're a single mum or you have financial stuff, I believe that if you really want to do something and put your mind to it, it's feasible, but you really have to be realistic. "There's no excuse for people to just get pregnant and stay at home." Price also spoke in detail about her treatment by the paparazzi and the media. She said: "There are so many things that need to be tweaked and done properly, more regulation. "You've got people coming across (badly) in this industry because they're not saying things right." She added that she felt sorry for the new host of reality stars from shows such as The Only Way is Essex and Made in Chelsea as they do not know the industry as well as her. She said: "I'm just very lucky that I've got a lot of people around me. "I think the media know now that they're not going to destroy me. I'm indestructible." A spokesman for Oxford Union said the event proved "very popular".
An insurance company has agreed to cover the cost of repatriating a 54-year-old Leicester woman who died while on holiday in Greece. Christine Mann died in hospital in Corfu on Saturday after suffering two strokes. She had mistakenly taken out an insurance policy which did not cover her six-month long holiday. Her family, of Mowmacre Hill, had been told they would have to raise Â£3,700 to bring her back to the UK. Ms Mann's niece Leanne Gowing, 31, said: "It is absolutely amazing news, my grandfather is in tears because he is so relieved. "It is nice to finally have some good news." Ms Mann's 85-year-old father, who suffers from Parkinson's disease, had to return to Leicester alone from their yearly holiday. They should have returned on 28 October. She had bought an annual mutli-trip travel insurance policy at the beginning of their six-month break in May, but the policy only covered a single trip for up to 30 days. Direct Travel Insurance said: "As we now believe a genuine mistake was made we will pay the cost of bringing Ms Mann home. "However we stress that it is important that when taking out any form of insurance that customers take care and shop for a policy that meets their specific needs." The family said they hoped Ms Mann's body could now be flown home next week. Because she was carrying a European Health Insurance Card, her medical expenses were covered for two weeks while she was in the Greek hospital.
US lawmakers have approved a long-delayed free trade agreement with South Korea, calling it the most significant in 16 years. Both houses of Congress voted in quick succession on Wednesday to approve the agreement, as well as pacts with Panama and Colombia. It will now go to President Barack Obama to be signed into law. The agreement is expected to increase US exports to the Asian economy by as much as $10bn (Â£6.5bn). The free-trade deal with South Korea is the largest US trade pact since it signed the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994. However, it still needs to be passed by the South Korean parliament. 'Made in America' President Obama said the pacts with South Korea, Panama and Colombia were "a major win for American workers and businesses". "Tonight's vote, with bipartisan support, will significantly boost exports that bear the proud label 'Made in America', support tens of thousands of good-paying American jobs and protect labour rights, the environment and intellectual property," he said in a statement. The Obama administration says that pact alone will support 70,000 American jobs. There was nearly $80bn in trade between the US and South Korea last year. The Asian country is the seventh largest trade partner for the US. The vote coincided with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak's arrival in Washington for an official visit. In a speech on Wednesday he said the agreement would "send a powerful message to the world that the US and South Korea stand together in rejecting protectionism and that we are open to free and fair trade". The pact was first agreed in 2007, but concerns in the US over tariffs imposed by South Korea on US carmakers delayed the proceedings.
At least 16 people have been injured after two Amtrak trains collided in California, US media reports say. Most of the injuries were minor, but several people had been taken to hospital, one official said. The trains had come from Bakersfield and Los Angeles. They collided near Oakland Station at around 2200 local on Wednesday (0500 GMT Thursday). A fire official told Associated Press one train had been stationary and the other was travelling at 15mph (24kph). A passenger said there had been "an awful jolt" when the collision took place. Oakland Fire Department battalion chief Emon Usher told AP the stationary train had been unloading passengers when it was hit. He said several of 16 people injured in the collision had been taken to local hospitals. The Oakland Tribune and KTVU-TV put the number of injured at 18.  They said most had suffered bruises and bumps, with one report of a broken arm. Authorities said the injured came from both trains. Amtrak said it had been a "low speed" collision between the "San Joaquin" train - travelling between Bakersfield and Oakland - and the Coast Starlight, which was on its way from Los Angeles to Seattle. The wheels of both trains' lead engines had derailed, a spokesman said. Train traffic through Oakland Station has been suspended and emergency services and rail inspectors are at the scene.
Uganda's Foreign Affairs Minister Sam Kutesa and two other officials have denied corruption charges. Mr Kutesa, chief whip John Nasasira and junior labour minister Mwesigwa Rukutana appeared in court a day after they resigned. They are accused of abuse of office as well as financial loss over the 2007 Commonwealth summit in Uganda, in which scams allegedly cost some $150m (£95m). Former Vice-President Gilbert Bukenya was charged in July. He denies that he benefited from a $3.9m deal to supply cars used to transport dozens of heads of state during the summit. Mr Kutesa was also accused on Monday of taking large bribes from UK-based Tullow Oil. The minister and the company strongly denied the allegation. In court, prosecutor Sydney Asubo said the three had cost the government 14bn shillings ($4.8m; £3.1m). "The three irregularly convened a consultative cabinet meeting and decided that the government would fully fund the construction cost of driveways, parking areas and marina at Munyonyo Speke Resort," he said. They face up to 13 years in jail if convicted, reports the AFP news agency. Some MPs from Mr Bukenya's Buganda ethnic group had accused the government of selective justice by failing to prosecute anyone else. Last week, the Inspectorate of Government - the body charged with fighting corruption - said Mr Kutesa, Mr Nasasira and Mr Rukutana would be charged. President Yoweri Museveni said on Wednesday that the three officials had chosen to resign. "That's their decision because what we want is the truth," he told a news conference. Mr Museveni sacked Mr Bukenya in May as part of a cabinet reshuffle.
Former Leicester Tigers boss Pat Howard has been named as Cricket Australia's general manager for team performance. The Australia head coach, captain and chairman of selectors will all report to the 37-year-old former rugby union international. Howard has previously served as Australian Rugby Union's (ARU) high-performance manager. "It is a great opportunity for anybody interested in sports leadership," Howard said. The job is a new position, recommended by the Argus Review instigated in the wake of the Test team's 3-1 Ashes series defeat at home to England. Howard, who played 20 times for the Wallabies, added: "The timing of the new role off the back of Argus Review makes this an exciting time in Australian cricket." The Queenslander will start work in Brisbane in mid-November. Cricket Australia (CA) chief executive James Sutherland said that Howard's experience in elite sport was a key factor in his appointment. He said: "He has a background of success as a player, selector and coach, including 20 Tests as an Australian [rugby] player, as well as playing and coaching success with Leicester Tigers in England. "He was also a high-performance GM [general manager] with the ARU. "He brings vital qualities in what is a pivotal new role with a singular focus on Australian team performance. "His priority will be ensuring that all of Australia's high-performance cricket programmes dovetail in a manner that helps us produce the best men's and women's teams in the world." One of Howard's first tasks will be helping to choose a new head coach to replace Tim Nielsen, who quit after the recent tour of Sri Lanka. Australia are currently touring South Africa, with Troy Cooley acting as interim coach.
TV is influential and the major terrestrial networks, including market leaders KBS and MBC, command the lion's share of viewing and advertising. Most South Koreans subscribe to digital cable and satellite. South Korean TV soaps are popular across the region, including in China. They are part of the "Korean Wave" - the export of South Korean popular culture across Asia. Newspaper readership is high and there are more than 100 national and local dailies. The press is often critical of the government. Many newspapers are controlled by industrial conglomerates. The government has stepped up pressure on TV channels that are seen as over-critical, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) notes. Nevertheless, South Korea is one of the few Asian nations where there is real news pluralism, it says. South Korea is at the leading edge of the digital revolution. It is a trailblazer for high-speed and wireless internet. Around 41.5 million South Koreans were online by the end of 2013 (InternetWorldStats). The country is a pioneer of TV via mobile devices and the internet (IPTV). Online gaming is a national passion. The government has "put in place the means to scrutinise online news", says RSF. Scores of web users, including a well-known blogger, have been arrested following complaints from the government or individuals. Twitter is a popular medium for political debate and campaigning. Use of the platform is twice the world average, a study has said. South Korea has one of the world's biggest blogging communities, second only to China.
The US trade deficit with the rest of the world narrowed in August to the smallest gap in four months, official figures have shown. The trade gap narrowed to $45.61bn (Â£29.1bn), from a revised $45.63bn in July, the Commerce Department said. However, the politically-sensitive trade gap with China widened to a record high. US imports and exports both slowed in the month as the weakening in the global economy took hold. For August, exports slipped by $95m to $177.6bn, as sales of expensive industrial items like cars, aircraft engines and oil field equipment all declined. Imports fell by $111m to $223.2bn. China gap With China, which the US has accused of keeping its currency artificially low, imports into the US reached a record $37.4bn. Between January and July, the US trade deficit with China was running 10% higher than the same point last year - when the trade gap between the two ballooned. On Tuesday, the US Senate passed a bill that would mandate the imposition of tariffs on some Chinese goods if the US Treasury determines that China is manipulating its currency. Earlier this week, Congress also approved three free trade agreements - with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.
The Mental Health Commission for Scotland has praised efforts to treat a greater number of patients in the community. It singled out the Borders as an example of good practice. The commission looked at the cases of 200 people treated for mental health conditions under community-based compulsory orders. Changes to the law have meant that fewer people are being kept for lengthy periods in hospital. The Borders was reported to have made extensive use of treatment outwith hospital, and the report found evidence of good care planning and review of orders. This was a new provision under the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003. Before it was implemented the report found that people did not think that community services were well enough developed to provide the care and support needed in the community. Dr Cliff Sharp, Associate Medical Director said: "We have a lot of people treated in the community under the provisions of the mental health act, and our community teams work with the individuals to discuss their needs and put in place support to achieve the agreed goals. ''This includes discussing with the individual what needs to be in place for the order to be removed and working towards maintaining engagement and therapeutic relationships even when compulsory measures are necessary.'' Dr Donald Lyons, Chief Executive of the Mental Welfare Commission, said: "We hope that service providers use the messages in this report to help people to recover from serious mental illness. ''Good care, treatment and support must be accompanied by services to improve the person's overall quality of life. ''We continue to regard compulsory community treatment as a priority for our attention. ''We will look further at our findings from this report and our forthcoming work on crisis support and intensive home treatment''.
Police are hunting a former abbot from London over a string of sex offences dating back 20 years. Father Lawrence Soper, 80, abbot of the Catholic Ealing Abbey from 1991 to 2000, is wanted over child abuse. The crimes date back to when he taught at St Benedict's School, a private Catholic school at the west London institution. A European Arrest Warrant may now be issued after the Metropolitan Police said Father Soper did not answer bail. The suspect is thought to be at a monastery in Rome. A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "An 80-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of an historical sexual assault. "He was bailed to a west London police station to March 2011. "The man failed to appear and inquiries are being made to trace him." A message on Ealing Abbey's website from current Abbot Martin Shipperlee said: "Many of you will have read news reports concerning my predecessor. "Accusations have been made against him concerning offences against children." It continued: "Early in March he left the monastery in Rome where he had been living to travel to London for an appointment with the police. "Unfortunately he failed to keep that appointment and we have heard nothing from him since and all efforts to contact him have been without success. "I cannot comment on the details of the police investigation but I must condemn without reservation his failure to co-operate with them."
Dorset County Council is to hold another vote on whether to save all of its 34 libraries. In July councillors voted to withdraw funding from nine libraries as the county council looks to save Â£800,000 a year by 2012. The Conservative-led authority had originally planned to shut 20 of its 34 sites, but revised the proposals. Councillor Janet Dover has presented the council leader with a motion and a new vote will be held on 10 November. Ms Dover raised the motion using a standing order, by getting the signatures from 10 county councillors supporting her. Their support means she can ask for a minute to be rescinded from decision that was made in July and replace it with option D, which would see all 34 libraries preserved, but with a reduction in opening hours and a cut in the budgets for books. Councillors had rejected that and opted to shut nine libraries, including ones in Wool, Corfe Castle, Charmouth and Puddletown, by next April unless volunteers could be found. However, it was a narrow defeat for campaigners as 20 councillors voted to save all libraries, while 21 voted for the closures. Ms Dover said she now hoped the public would urge their councillors to change their minds and to vote to keep the libraries open.
Work to remove a string of steel electricity pylons in the Cairngorms National Park has started. The pylons are being removed as part of a deal allowing Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) to create an upgraded Beauly to Denny electricity line. About 33 miles (53km) of overhead transmission line are to come down between Boat of Garten and Cairnmore. The new 42m to 65m tall pylons along the 130-mile (209km) Beauly to Denny line have attracted public opposition. Some communities are up in arms about the impact on their local landscape, while others are to benefit from the removal of existing pylons. SSE has agreed to remove about 68 miles (109km) of overhead pylons in the Highlands and Perth and Kinross. The company said removing the pylons will have a positive effect, reducing the visual impact of the electricity grid in the Cairngorms National Park. The company also plans to remove another 25 miles (40km) of pylons in the park, running to the south of Aviemore, and replacing them with wooden poles or underground cables. Pylons will also be removed and underground cables installed around Beauly and Whitebridge and near Amulree in Perthshire. The project is a joint development between Scottish Power and Scottish and Southern Energy. The Scottish government approved the line but required Scottish Power to mitigate the effect of the new pylons.
US President Barack Obama has dedicated a new memorial to the assassinated civil rights leader, Martin Luther King, at a ceremony in Washington. Addressing the crowd, Mr Obama said that Dr King was now among the founders of the American nation. The 30 ft (9m) granite statue lies near the spot where Dr King delivered his famous "I have a dream" speech in 1963. The ceremony had been due to take place in August but was postponed due to Hurricane Irene. President Obama toured the monument with his wife, Michelle, and his two daughters. Speaking to an audience of tens of thousands, he said Americans were right to celebrate Dr King's dream, and vision of unity. "On this day, in which we celebrate a man and a movement that did so much for this country, let us draw strength from those earlier struggles," he told the crowd on the National Mall in the US capital. "When met with hardship, when confronting disappointment, Dr. King refused to accept what he called the 'is-ness' of today. He kept pushing for the 'ought-ness' of tomorrow," Mr Obama said. "In this place, he will stand for all time, among monuments to those who fathered this nation and those who defended it." The statue is situated between the memorials for Presidents Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. Born in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1929, Martin Luther King was a clergyman and leading figure in the US civil rights movement. He was assassinated in 1968 during a visit to Memphis, Tennessee, aged 39.
It's not the crime - it's the cover-up. What was true for Richard Nixon three decades ago seems to be equally applicable in South Africa today. As the establishment here sweats beneath a particularly cumbersome stack of scandals, what is most striking is not the alleged crimes themselves but the nonchalance with which the accused have shrugged off the very notion that they might be publicly accountable for their actions. President Jacob Zuma - his in-tray piled high with damning reports - seems reluctant to force the issue. So we have the board of Cricket South Africa - gloved and heavily padded - seemingly preoccupied with internal discipline rather than external transparency. Then there's the extraordinary swagger shown by Co-operative Governance Minister Sicelo Shiceka as he confronts a mountain of breathtaking evidence compiled by the country's public protector. He's accused, among other things, of flying to Switzerland at the taxpayer's expense to visit his convicted drug-dealer girlfriend in prison. And we have the Police Commissioner and the Minister for Public Works. And the list goes on. Due process must be followed of course, and the presumption of innocence honoured. But as the weeks slip by and President Zuma sticks stubbornly to the sidelines, the knives are starting to come out for him too. And lest we think that corruption is confined to matters of business and theft, let me also throw in the scandal of the Dalai Lama's non-visit. If power corrupts, then surely the government's refusal to even acknowledge its own actions - let alone defend them - must count against it.
Politicians, celebrities and friends gathered on Sunday to celebrate the life of Steve Jobs. Bill Clinton, Bill Gates, Bono and Stephen Fry were among those attending the memorial service, held at Stanford University. The charismatic co-founder of Apple died on 5 October as a result of pancreatic cancer. Another event, for staff, will be held at the company's headquarters in Cupertino on Wednesday. This weekend's gathering was held at Memorial Church on Stanford University's campus. The broad range of attendees reflected Steve Jobs' diverse range of interests, which extended far beyond running a computer company. Among a number of big names from Hollywood was John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of Pixar Animation Studios. Steve Jobs bought the small digital graphics company in 1986. It went on to produce films such as Toy Story, Cars and Monsters, Inc. Political leaders also paid tribute. Among them, Bill Clinton and his former Vice-President, Al Gore, who also sits on the board of Apple. Senior Apple figures, including new chief executive Tim Cook and head of iOS software, Scott Forstall, were joined by leading figures from across the technology world. Former Microsoft chief executive Bill Gates, Michael Dell and Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison also came to pay tribute. Details of the event were not made public, although afterwards Stephen Fry, a high profile fan of Apple, tweeted: "I don't know that there was ever a more beautiful memorial service. "Everyone who spoke did so with such passion and love and simplicity."
A Shropshire charity has designated October 'Black Cat Awareness Month' in a bid to rehome unwanted felines. Staff at RSPCA Gonsal Farm animal centre, in Dorrington, said they wondered if superstition caused people to be "spooked out" by black cats. The animal centre is currently "inundated" with black cats and kittens, having 37 out of 62 cats. In an attempt to entice the public they are highlighting the black cats in their care in need of homes. A spokeswoman for the charity said the idea was also in keeping with the celebrations and superstitions of Halloween. She said staff were determined to quash some of the negative myths surrounding black cats and promote them as potential pets. Two of the cats in need of a home are Potter and Sally who have been in RSPCA care since November 2010. Kirsty Martuccio, cattery supervisor at Gonsal Farm, said: "Potter and Sally are just two of the many black cats we currently have looking for a second chance in life. "We find it really sad that people often choose to rehome a cat simply on its colour as the colour of a cat makes no difference to their personality and the love they have to offer." She urged people living locally to visit the cattery and see some of the cats in their care.
US industrial production grew in September as rising factory output made up for falling output from utilities. The Federal Reserve said industrial production grew 0.2% in the month, having been unchanged in August. Factory output grew for a third consecutive month, rising 0.4%, while utility output fell 1.8%. Manufacturers cut 13,000 jobs in September, having cut 4,000 in August and the average working week for factory workers also declined. Manufacturing had been among the first part of the economy to show recovery when the recession ended in 2009. But in early 2011, higher prices for food and fuel depressed demand while the earthquake in the tsunami in Japan disrupted the supply of parts to the auto sector. Car manufacturing is now recovering from that disruption, with auto output now having grown for the third month in a row. There was gloomier news from the New York Federal Reserve, which said that its Empire State gauge of manufacturing in New York state had contracted for a fifth consecutive month in October. "Today's industrial number continues the theme of situational economics, which has come up a lot lately. If you are in the right situation, you are doing OK. If you are not, you are not," said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica in Dallas. "Auto and energy intensive parts of the countries are stable, but in other areas of the country, we are seeing some softness."
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC has been dealt a big blow in its legal battle with Apple involving patent infringement claims. The US International Trade Commission (ITC) has ruled that Apple did not violate patents as claimed by HTC in a complaint lodged last year. HTC had asked the court to ban imports of several Apple products in to the US citing patent infringements. HTC's shares fell as much as 6% after the ruling. The case involved four patents held by HTC related to protecting data, storing contact information and managing the phone's power supply. The judgement is another setback for HTC which is involved in a long and bitter battle with Apple. In July this year, the Taiwanese phonemaker was found to have infringed two iPhone patents in a case brought by Apple at the ITC. However, HTC said that despite the judgement, it was sticking to its claims. "This is only one step of many in these legal proceedings. We are confident we have a strong case for the ITC appeals process and are fully prepared to protect our intellectual property," said Grace Lei, HTC's general counsel. "We look forward to resolving this case, so we can continue creating the most innovative mobile experiences for consumers." A full commission of the ITC is expected to decide in February, whether to uphold or reject the judge's decision.
EDF Energy has shut one of two reactors at its Hinkley Point B nuclear power station in Somerset as part of planned maintenance. The company said reactor 4 was shut down last Friday but the second reactor will remain online supplying electricity to over 500,000 homes. The reactor outage, which occurs every three years, began on 14 October. EDF director, Mike Harrison, said work will be done "to the highest possible standards of safety and quality". He said: "This is a very important time for Hinkley Point B and is the culmination of around two years of planning. "As well as being important for the power station itself, the work is also great news for the local economy as it results in millions of pounds going to local and regional contractors, businesses and accommodation providers." The "planned work", according to the company, is costing Â£35m and will involve inspections of the reactor core and the "replacement of four large gas circulators" in the gas-cooled reactors. One thousand additional contractors will also be on site, working alongside the station's 550-strong workforce. Hinkley Point B came into service in 1976 but its working life has been extended to 2016. EDF Energy has signalled it plans to keep the complex going for five years beyond that date.
Two men who battered a 41-year-old to death in a Bolton street have been jailed for life. Aisar Gul Khan, 21, of Devon Street, Farnworth, and Dale Michael Duncan, 21, of Bolton Road, Farnworth, were convicted of the murder of James Tierney at Manchester Crown Court. Khan must serve 15 years and Duncan 12 years before being eligible for parole. Det Sgt Mike Gladwin said the attack in April was "one of the most brutal and appalling" he had investigated. Mr Tierney was found in Devon Street by Greater Manchester Police in the early hours of 15 April. He had received severe facial injuries and died in hospital a short time later. Witnesses described seeing Duncan pull a drainpipe from the side of a house to swing at the victim. Mr Gladwin said there were also reports that Mr Tierney "begged Khan and Duncan to let him go home but instead was savagely beaten to death". "James had been at his girlfriend's house and was making his way home when he was subjected to one of the most brutal and appalling attacks I have had the misfortune to investigate," he said. "We don't know what prompted this attack but clearly both men have no regard for human life and left an innocent man to suffer a shocking death. "I hope that their life sentences are of some small comfort to James' family and friends."
Counterfeit goods worth £100,000 which were seized by Powys trading standards have been given to charity. Christian group His Church have received about 4,000 items including CDs, clothing, boots and computer memory sticks. It has passed on clothing to drugs charity Kaleidoscope and Gwalia Care and Support after it removed the fake branding. Powys council said items such as counterfeit CDs would be wiped first. Trading standards said it seized fake goods from retail premises, markets, car boot sales and households. "Traders of fake merchandise make money out of someone else's work and getting these goods off the streets of Powys is an important role of our trading standards service," said Geraint Hopkins, cabinet member for environment and regulation. "By teaming up with His Church, not only are we protecting consumers, but we are also helping others make use of the items seized." Clive Jones, the council's principal trading standards officer, said counterfeiting was not the victimless crime. He said: "The proceeds from fake goods often go to organised criminals who maybe involved in other crime in our communities and also our local and legitimate traders end up with the threat of losing jobs because of this activity." Last year, Powys trading standards won a UK award for its work in tackling the worldwide trade in fake goods. It scooped the department of the year prize from the Anti-Counterfeiting Group.
A Yorkshire ballet company facing the loss of a quarter of its dancers due to funding cuts is appealing for people to sponsor a dancer in a bid to save jobs. Leeds-based Northern Ballet said it was asking for sponsorship because 10 out of 40 dancers faced redundancy if it failed to plug an Â£800,000 shortfall. The Arts Council announced in March it would cut its grant to the company by 25% in 2012-13. Northern Ballet said maintaining a full complement of dancers was "vital". Mark Skipper, the company's chief executive, said: "We can't expect our dancers to deliver 150 performances in 24 cities across the whole of the UK without resources. "It's a very limited profession and to lose 25% of the workforce of classical dancers in the north is appalling." Mr Skipper said attracting sponsorship for dancers was just one of "several" initiatives the company was considering to fill the black hole left by the Arts Council funding cut. Earlier this year, Northern Ballet's production of Cleopatra, the story of the Egyptian queen and her lovers, brought in about Â£1.2m at box offices across the UK. But Hannah Bateman, first soloist at Northern Ballet, said the company could only continue its success if it remained at full strength. "I really don't know what will happen if we do lose dancers. We're on a skeleton staff of dancers as it is," she said.
A small voluntary group has secured enough money to conserve and redesign the displaying of an intricately carved Pictish stone in Easter Ross. The Nigg cross-slab dates from the 8th Century AD and features snakes and a depiction of monks receiving bread from a raven sent by God. Nigg Old Trust has received a funding package of Â£178,000. The Heritage Lottery Fund, Scottish government and European Community Highland Leader fund contributed. The stone is displayed at Nigg Old Church. Liz Budge, of Nigg Old Trust, said the financial package was crucial to the conservation of the stone. She said: "We are a small group of local volunteers and, without support from organisations such as Heritage Lottery Fund and the Highland Leader Programme, would be unable to carry out this project. "This funding will allow us to complete the final phase of an ambitious programme which has already seen us successfully complete major refurbishments to the church." The cross-slab is one of Scotland's greatest art treasures, according to the trust. The stone's entry in the Highland Historic Environment database described it as being intricately carved. The entry said: "The style echoes that of the the sculptured crosses on Iona, the Book of Kells, and illustrated manuscripts of Lindisfarne in Northumbria and Durrow in Ireland. "It seems always to have stood in the churchyard at Nigg." In 1727 it was blown down in a storm but re-erected against the east gable of the church, according to the database. In later years it was broken while being moved to give access to a burial vault and re-erected upside down. Eventually it was moved inside the church. A broken piece of the cross-slab was found in a nearby burn in 1998.
Prosecutors have begun questioning the controversial chief minister of India's Tamil Nadu state, Jayaram Jayalalitha, in a corruption case against her. She is accused of amassing huge amounts of wealth during a previous term as chief minister between 1991 and 1996.  She denies the allegation. The case was transferred from Madras (Chennai) in Tamil Nadu to Bangalore, capital of neighbouring Karnataka state, to ensure a fair trial. Security was tight for her appearance. Known as the "empress of the south", Ms Jayalalitha led her AIADMK party to a spectacular victory in state elections earlier this year. It is her third term as chief minister. But she is accused of amassing $13.6m (£8.5m) between 1991 and 1996, during her first term as chief minister. In what is known as a "disproportionate assets" case, prosecutors allege that this sum exceeds what she should have earned once all legally held assets and sources of income were taken into account. Ms Jayalalitha had asked to be exempted from making a personal appearance citing security concerns but the court rejected her request. The Supreme Court ordered authorities to ensure tight security for Ms Jayalalitha who has been a target for Tamil Tiger rebels in Sri Lanka because of her tough stance towards them. The rebels were defeated by the Sri Lankan army in 2009. She arrived in a cavalcade at the court on Thursday morning where more than 1,000 policemen were on security duty. "The security is unprecedented. Lawyers too are not being allowed inside," a police officer told the BBC. A former actress, she is one of India's most colourful and controversial politicians.
Dirty Dancing star Jennifer Grey is to guest judge on Strictly Come Dancing next month. The 51-year-old actress will replace Len Goodman for a week while the head judge takes a break. Grey won Dancing with the Stars - the US version of the celebrity dance show, on which Goodman also judges - last year with her partner Derek Hough. She will join fellow judges Craig Revel Horwood, Alesha Dixon and Bruno Tonioli on the panel on 5 and 6 November. "I so look forward to making the pilgrimage to the birthplace of the greatest dance show, the mecca of spray tans and tangos, and to sit in for the great and pernickety Len Goodman," Grey is quoted as saying. Goodman films Strictly and its US counterpart concurrently, with Dancing with the Stars airing live on Monday and Tuesday straight after the judge finishes his duties with the UK show. Fellow judge Tonioli also sits on the US judging panel, alongside US choreographer Carrie Ann Inaba. "Flying back and forth between London and LA doing the two shows is very gruelling, so this year the BBC have kindly agreed to give me a week off to rest," Goodman said. A BBC spokesman added: "It was always agreed that Len would take a week off from Strictly due to his commitments with Dancing with the Stars." Goodman will return to the UK judging panel from 12 November. Grey remains best known for her role as Frances 'Baby' Houseman in 1987's Dirty Dancing, in which she appeared with the late Patrick Swayze.
Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has criticised the killings in its ally Syria sparked by the government's violent crackdown on dissent. In his most outspoken comments yet, Mr Ahmadinejad told CNN: "Nobody has the right to kill others, neither the government nor its opponents." He said Iran would encourage all sides to reach an understanding, but warned the US not to intervene in Syria. Syria has close ties with Iran, which suppressed its own protests in 2009. Iran has also put down or prevented about a dozen protests since the wave of anti-government uprisings in the Middle East began earlier this year. "We are going to make greater efforts to encourage both the government of Syria and the other side, all parties, to reach an understanding," Mr Ahmadinejad said in the interview with CNN. He warned against any outside intervention in Syria, in particular by the US. "The positions of the United States are not going to help. They have never helped," he said. Iran has been muted in its criticisms of Syria, its most important ally in the region. However in September, Mr Ahmadinejad spoke of "needed reforms", while the Iranian foreign minister called on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to "be accountable to his people's legitimate demands". Shia Iran is regarded with suspicion by its Sunni Arab neighbours. Syria's government is dominated by the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shia Islam.
Manchester United striker Javier Hernandez has signed a new five-year contract to keep him at Old Trafford until 2016. The Mexican, 23, who signed from Chivas de Guadalajara in July 2010, scored 23 goals in his first season at the club. United boss Sir Alex Ferguson said: "The last player I remember making an impact as quickly is Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Javier reminds me of Ole." Hernandez said: "Playing for Manchester United has been a dream come true." He added: "I never expected my first year to go so well and I'm delighted to commit my future to United. "To win a title and appear in a Champions League final was fantastic. I'm looking forward to helping my team-mates as we bid to win more trophies for this great club." The Mexico international was on the bench for United's 6-1 drubbing by neighbours Manchester City on Sunday but came on after 65 minutes. He missed the start of the season after suffering concussion on United's pre-season tour of the United States. Media playback is not supported on this device He has recently been linked with a move to Real Madrid and United have acted to tie him up on a long-term deal. Ferguson added: "His talent for creating space in the box and his finishing ability mark him out as a natural goalscorer. "Off the pitch, he is a pleasure to manage.  He works very hard and is a popular member of the squad." For the latest updates and reaction to this story, read Sportsday Live. Have your say on Twitter via the hashtag #bbcsportsday.
Former Olympic bronze medallist Kelly Sotherton is to return to heptathlon and hopes to compete at London 2012. The 34-year-old, who came third in Athens in 2004, has concentrated on the 400m hurdles since November 2010. She failed to qualify for the World Championships and has since lost her lottery funding, but began training for multi-eventing again four weeks ago. "I am motivated more and I'm enjoying the fact I could be at the Olympics in the heptathlon," she told Sky Sports. "It has rejuvenated my feelings for the sport." Sotherton later said on her Twitter account: "I've had to keep my gob shut for over 2 months about this! So it's a relief it's out! #heptathlon" Since ending her hepathlon career, Sotherton has been supplanted as British number one by Jessica Ennis and she has previously said that, at her best, she could have run the 2009 world champion from Sheffield close. Sotherton admits that she does not expect to challenge Ennis on her comeback. "I don't think I'm going to be rivalling her as I possibly could have been a few years ago. I know where my limits lie, I'm not striving for a gold medal," she added. The Olympic 'A' qualifying standard is 6,150 points, comfortably below Sotherton's 2005 personal best of 6,547. She scored 6,517 in her last heptathlon in 2008 before heel and back injuries forced her  withdrawal from the multi-discipline event.
Royal Marines from 42 Commando have returned to Devon after a six-month deployment to Afghanistan. During the tour in Helmand Province, the unit lost seven men. The marines, based at Bickleigh Barracks near Plymouth, have been training the Afghan National Police and building relations with local people. The aircraft carrying the 100 marines arrived at Exeter Airport at about 23:00 BST. The unit was deployed on 8 April. Lt Col Ewen Murchison said: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of our seven brothers-in-arms who have tragically been killed during the tour: Lt Ollie Augustin, Sgt Barry Weston, L/Cpl Martin Gill and Marines Sam Alexander, Nigel Mead, James Wright and David Fairbrother. "Their deaths are felt deeply across the commando and a sad reminder of the daily dangers we faced, they will be sorely missed," he added. The marines have helped to develop two schools and clinics for women and children and have also trained and handed over two patrol bases to the Afghan National Police. The majority of the unit were deployed to northern Nad-e Ali District in Helmand Province, the Royal Navy said. About 80 marines from 42 Commando remain in Afghanistan, the Royal Navy added.
Former Guatemalan military ruler Oscar Mejia Victores has been sent to hospital to see if he is well enough to stand trial on genocide charges. Gen Mejia, 80, is accused of ordering massacres in indigenous Maya villages during Guatemala's 1960-96 civil war. His lawyers say he recently suffered a stroke and is not physically or mentally capable of answering the charges. Prosecutors dispute this, saying he was under sedation at an initial hearing. Oscar Mejia was arrested in Guatemala City earlier this month after a warrant was issued against him on charges of genocide. He ruled Guatemala from 1983-86 after seizing power in a coup. He also served as an army general and defence minister during the long civil war, in which an estimated 200,000 people were killed as the army battled left-wing guerrillas. A UN-backed truth commission found that the security forces were responsible for the vast majority of killings. It also concluded that massacres of indigenous Maya communities accused of supporting the rebels amounted to acts of genocide. Few senior army commanders have ever faced trial for the atrocities, but in recent months the government of President Alvaro Colom has begun to try to bring suspected war criminals to justice. Another former general - Otto Perez Molina - is favourite to win the presidential election next month. President Colom is not allowed to stand for a second term.
Three art galleries could be created in Birmingham as part of an ambitious scheme to attract investment in the arts. The Creative City project hopes to create 100,000 jobs in the region and add Â£8bn to the local economy. The new galleries would be part of the new Curzon Square Museum Quarter. Launching the scheme, Culture Secretary Ed Vaisey urged West Midlands business leaders to invest in creative industries. The three new galleries would be Ikon 2, built on Curzon Street as a sister gallery to the current Ikon. A museum of contemporary art will be launched with works from leading modern artists. And the Curzon Street railway station buildings could house a museum of photography. Martin Mullaney, cabinet member for leisure, sport and culture at Birmingham City Council, said the building earmarked for the photography museum was currently empty and needed a new use. He said: "We have probably one of the largest photographic collections in Britain, showing photographs throughout the whole history of Birmingham and it's there in cardboard boxes." The museum of contemporary art would house works by artists such as Francis Bacon, Henry Moore and David Hockney. A feasibility study is currently being carried out and will reveal the expected cost of the three museums. Mr Mullaney said the council was in the process of bidding for a collection of national importance which would bring tourists to the city. He added the new galleries could be paid for by money from the private sector, the Heritage Lottery Fund, the Arts Council and the government. "We want to show that we have got a vision for Birmingham and an ambition to put Birmingham on the international stage so that we are up there with the likes of Barcelona and Berlin," he said.
After Robert Black dies in prison, BBC News NI looks back at the child killer's history of abusing and murdering young girls. Black is in Northern Ireland working as a delivery driver for a London-based poster company. Nine-year-old Jennifer Cardy is abducted. Her body is found near her family home in Ballinderry, outside Lisburn, County Antrim. Black abducts and murders 11-year-old Susan Maxwell from Cornhill-on-Tweed in Northumberland, close to the border between England and Scotland. Caroline Hogg disappears from outside her home in Portobello, near Edinburgh. The five-year-old is found dead in a ditch in Leicestershire. Black used to work as a lifeguard and swim in the Portobello area when he was a young man. Ten-year-old Sarah Harper is abducted as she walks from a corner shop near her home in Morley, Leeds. Her body is discovered in the River Trent in Nottingham. Black attempts to abduct 15-year-old Theresa Thornhill in the Radford area of Nottingham. He tried to drag her into his van but the schoolgirl fought him off with the help of a friend. Black is caught when he abducts a six-year-old girl in the village of Stow in the Scottish borders. She was gagged, bound and stuffed in a sleeping bag in the back of his van when police stopped him. Black is convicted over the murders of Susan, Caroline and Sarah. Black is charged with the murder of Jennifer Cardy. Black is found guilty of the murder of Jennifer Cardy 30 years earlier. Police say he is "a lost cause to humanity". Black dies in Maghaberry Prison near Lisburn, County Antrim. He was 68 years old. Devon police say they were just weeks away from charging Black with the 1978 murder of 13-year-old Genette Tate.
The maker of the Blackberry PlayBook has delayed an update to the tablet computer's operating system until next year. Research In Motion said it expects to deliver the software in February. It had been due this month. RIM has admitted that sales of the device are lower than it anticipated. It acknowledged customers want native email, calendar and contacts applications. The update aims to add the features. A company blog described the decision as "difficult", but promised the revision will allow the firm's phones and PlayBooks "to work together even better". RIM's shares closed down 7.5% on the news. At present users cannot access their Blackberry email through the tablet computers unless the devices are linked to one of the firm's smartphones using its Bridge software. The Canadian firm also said it had taken the decision to defer the inclusion of a BBM instant messaging application until a later release. However, RIM said it was still planning to offer businesses the ability to manage their employees' tablets from a centralised computer server and to offer workers custom-built applications through the Blackberry App World store in its OS 2.0 download. Analysts said the news may prove damaging to sales over the holiday season. "It is a big setback for them. When they launched the tablet they tried to walk the line between a consumer device and an enterprise device," said Jon Erensen, research director at the technology specialists Gartner. "People were hoping the initial limitations would be corrected with the update by now. The delay means they fall even further behind."
Artist Sir Peter Blake has given the Brit Awards statuette a pop art makeover ahead of next year's ceremony. Sir Peter, who is best known for designing The Beatles' Sgt Pepper album cover, has redesigned the Britannia statuette, which will be given to the winners at the event in February. He revealed that Brits organisers had rejected his first design. "I did something and they said: 'Could you make it a bit more pop art?'" he told BBC News. "So it's pop arted up." He said he had added "some symbols around the bottom that I've used constantly over the years - a star and a heart and half a rainbow and a target". "So it looks very much like my work," he said. "It needed a signature and I think those symbols gave it the signature." The 79-year-old artist is the second person to redesign the trophy, after fashion designer Dame Vivienne Westwood created her version for the 2011 ceremony. According to Brits chairman David Joseph, the famous collage Sir Peter designed for the 1967 Beatles album Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band is "the world's most iconic album sleeve". "Sir Peter's work is synonymous with the best of British music," he said, calling his design concept for the award "incredible". Other album covers designed by Sir Peter include Paul Weller's Stanley Road and Oasis's Stop the Clocks. Actor James Corden will once again host the ceremony, which will take place at London's O2 Arena on 21 February. "I enjoyed presenting the show so much last year so being asked back for the third time is a real honour," the 33-year-old said.
The wife of jailed US financial swindler Bernard Madoff has said the couple attempted suicide after his $65bn (Â£41bn) fraud scheme was exposed. Ruth Madoff told the CBS programme 60 Minutes the couple took a "bunch of pills" on Christmas Eve in 2008. "I don't know whose idea it was, but we decided to kill ourselves because it was so horrendous what was happening," she said. Madoff is serving a 150-year jail sentence after being convicted in 2009. Ruth Madoff told CBS that the couple had made the suicide pact on Christmas Eve, which - she continued - added to "the whole depression". "I took what we had, he took more," she said, adding that she did not drink any alcohol with them for fear of vomiting. Among the pills were Ambien (a sedative) and possibly Klonopin (for seizure and panic disorder treatment). "We took pills and woke up the next day... It was very impulsive and I am glad we woke up", Mrs Madoff said. The interview in full will be broadcast on CBS on 30 October. CBS said it would contain many previously undisclosed revelations about the family in the aftermath of the scandal. Madoff's ponzi scheme, which had been running since the early 1990s, deprived thousands of investors of their savings.
Facebook is heading to Swedish Lapland, lured not by Father Christmas, but because of the climate. Temperatures in the city of Lulea, in the north-east of the country, make it the perfect location for the social media giant's first non-US data centre. It means it can use outside air for cooling its servers for up to 10 months of the year. The facility will process data from Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. It will cover 30,000 square metres. That is the equivalent of around 11 football pitches. The social network needs to ramp up its computing power as it continues to grow. It currently has more than 800 million users. Up until 2009 Facebook leased space in data centres but then made the decision to design and build its own. The new centre will be powered primarily by renewable energy and will require 70% less generator power. It will also benefit from Lulea's electricity prices which are some of the cheapest in Europe. Gaining a global brand like Facebook will be a big coup for the city and it hopes others will follow. More companies are placing their data centres in Northern Europe because the climate works well for the cooling systems necessitated by racks of huge servers. Facebook prides itself on the fact that its engineers have built its infrastructure from scratch - including the design of the servers themselves. "Assembling the servers is like building a Lego model, the parts snap together. The servers slot in and out of their racks by flipping a couple of catches," the firm explained. The design of the fans mean they consume far less energy than a traditional server, it added.
Armistice Day is on 11 November and is also known as Remembrance Day. It marks the day World War One ended, at 11am on the 11th day of the 11th month, back in 1918. A two-minute silence is held at 11am to remember the people who have died in wars. There is also Remembrance Sunday every year, which falls on the second Sunday in November. This year, it will fall on Sunday 13 November. On this day, there are usually ceremonies at war memorials, cenotaphs and churches throughout the country, as well as abroad. The Royal Family and top politicians gather at The Cenotaph in Whitehall, London, for a memorial service. The anniversary is used to remember all the people who have died in wars, not just World War One. This includes World War Two, the Falklands War, the Gulf War, and conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. The first two-minute silence in Britain was held on 11 November 1919, when King George V asked the public to observe a silence at 11am. This was one year after the end of World War One. He made the request so "the thoughts of everyone may be concentrated on reverent remembrance of the glorious dead".
Two men have been found guilty of shooting a man dead outside a prison in south London. Darcy Austin-Bruce, 20, was visiting an inmate at Wandsworth Prison on 1 May 2009 when he was shot five times, the Old Bailey heard. Rupert Ross and Leon de St Aubin, both from Fulham, west London, were found guilty of murder. Ross, 30, disguised himself as a lawyer to gun down the victim while de St Aubin, 34, was the getaway driver. The jury, which deliberated for 50 hours, was unable to reach a verdict on Khori Hines, 34, of Fulham, and on Casper Smith, 30, of Shepherds Bush. Both men denied the murder. Ross, who came from a wealthy family and went to private Dulwich College, and de St Aubin, who was a fireman, will be sentenced on Thursday. During the trial Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, said the smartly dressed gunman, who was wearing a crash helmet, and his accomplice escaped on a stolen moped after the attack. The jury heard Ross, de St Aubin and Mr Austin-Bruce had been friends and were involved in drug dealing but they had fallen out. Mr Aylett told the court: "To anyone who noticed him, the smartly dressed man must have looked like a lawyer making a legal visit to a client in the prison. "There was, however, something slightly unusual about the man, in that he was wearing a crash helmet he had not removed from his head. "This was, in the most literal sense, an inside job. The killers had been tipped off by someone inside the prison."
The Attorney General is considering whether to take action over a tweet exposing Vincent Tabak's use of violent pornography. A blogger is alleged to have ignored a reporting ban during the trial of the Dutch engineer for murdering Jo Yeates. The suspect was arrested last week over the tweet, sent out before the jury delivered its verdict. On Friday Tabak, 33, was jailed at Bristol Crown Court for a minimum of 20 years for strangling Miss Yeates. Tabak killed the 25-year-old landscape architect, his next door neighbour, at her flat in Canynge Road, Bristol, on 17 December and dumped her body about three miles away in Longwood Lane, Failand. The office of Dominic Grieve QC confirmed that it had received papers from Bristol Crown Court about the tweet by the suspect, who is understood not to be a journalist. Reporting restrictions made under the Contempt of Court Act banning publication of Tabak's use of violent porn were lifted following his conviction. On the morning of Miss Yeates's murder he reportedly watched violent sex films online. The sites showed images of of men choking women during sex, images of other women tied up in car boots and others being bound and gagged. The prosecution wanted the information about Tabak's secret life, plus his visits to prostitutes in the US while on business, to be put before the jury
The route the Olympic torch will take through locations in Bristol and South Gloucestershire has been announced. The flame will arrive in Bitton on 22 May, before heading to Longwell Green, Hanham and on to Bristol, where it will travel by water on a vintage boat. A celebratory event will take place in Bristol, where it will stay overnight. On 23 May the torch will travel through Flax Bourton, Backwell Farleigh, Backwell West Town, Nailsea, Failand, Leigh Woods and back to Bristol. The procession will also visit Bath's Royal Crescent on 22 May. Councillor Simon Cook, from Bristol City Council, said: "Everyone is very excited about the Olympic torch being carried through the streets of Bristol. "I'm sure residents in Bristol will want to welcome the torch relay, cheer the torchbearers and celebrate the coming of the 2012 Olympics." Leader of South Gloucestershire Council John Calway said: "We are delighted that South Gloucestershire has been chosen as a destination for the Olympic flame to travel through. "We feel it shows our residents, visitors and the wider community that South Gloucestershire is a great place to live and work and we hope that many people will join us in lining the streets to welcome the torchbearer and embrace the legacy of the 2012 Olympics."
Surgeons in Leeds have begun the search for a patient to take part in the UK's first hand transplant. Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust has written to plastic surgeons across the country asking them to recommend patients. The first hand transplant took place in France in 1998. Since then, 60 more operations have taken place worldwide. Doctors believe the first UK operation will be performed at Leeds General Infirmary within a year. Leeds already has a reputation in reattaching hands for people who have had them cut off. Prof Simon Kay, consultant plastic surgeon, said transplanting a hand from a donor was "exactly the same" as the techniques already practised at the hospital. He told the BBC: "Only when you speak to people who've lost a hand can you realise what a devastating thing it is, losing both hands is absolutely incapacitating. "Now for those people there is real hope of restoration of natural appearance, natural feeling, natural function." He is working with NHS Blood and Transplant to work out how best to identify potential donors. Earlier in the year, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence issued guidance on hand transplants. It warned of a shortage of evidence about the safety and effectiveness of the procedure. As a result it said the operation should take place only in centres with highly experienced surgeons and that patients should be warned of the risks. "In particular the need for and risks of long-term immunosuppression, and the fact that functioning of the transplant may be both delayed and limited," it said.
The government of Honduras has deployed hundreds of troops in the main cities to combat a wave of criminal violence. Joint patrols of soldiers and police have been sent into areas dominated by criminal gangs. Honduras has the world's highest murder rate, according to the UN, with much of the killing linked to drug-trafficking. On Monday President Porfirio Lobo sacked his top police commanders after four officers accused of murder were released and went into hiding. The military deployment, dubbed "Operation Lightning", began in the capital Tegucigalpa and the northern city of San Pedro Sula. Soldiers and counter-insurgency police units set up road blocks while helicopters patrolled overhead. President Lobo said the aim was to "guarantee the presence of the authorities in the most conflict-ridden areas". He vowed to "do everything possible within the law to reduce the impunity that makes us all indignant". The sacking of the police commanders on Monday followed the release of four officers accused of killing two students. Their release has caused public outrage in Honduras, which is suffering soaring levels of violent crime. A recent UN report found the country had the highest rate in the world in 2010, with 82 killings per 100,000 inhabitants - an average of 20 murders a day. Honduras is a major transit point for cocaine smuggling from South America north through Mexico to the US, and much of the violence is linked to drugs gangs.
Qantas has agreed to further compensate passengers affected by its move to ground its entire fleet over a dispute with unions. The move comes after the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) asked it to act on the matter. Qantas had grounded its entire fleet on Saturday, affecting almost 70,000 passengers. The airline resumed operations on Monday after a court ordered a permanent end to the dispute. "Qantas agrees to, and accepts, the ACCC's request that it compensate passengers for all reasonable losses incurred as a direct result of the grounding," Qantas said in a statement. "Qantas has always intended to ensure that disrupted customers incur no financial loss." Qantas said it had already offered refunds, rebooking and compensation for expenses incurred by travellers, and will announce further measures as an apology to affected customers. Earlier, the ACCC said that it had asked the airline for a report on the claims it had received and the redress provided on them. "It is squarely in the airline's camp to make good," said Rod Sims chairman of ACCC. "If you have incurred additional expenses as a result of the grounding, the ACCC is of the view that Qantas should compensate you for all your reasonable losses," he added.
A radioactive gas has been detected at Japan's crippled Fukushima nuclear plant, the facility's operator says. Tepco said xenon had been found in reactor two, which was previously thought to be near a stable shutdown. There has been no increase in temperature or pressure, but the discovery may indicate a problem with the reactor. Boric acid - used to suppress nuclear reactions - has been injected as a precaution. Ever since the meltdowns in March triggered by the huge earthquake and tsunami, engineers have been working to bring the Fukushima reactors under control. The government and Tepco - the Tokyo Electric Power Company - have said they are on track to achieve a stable shutdown by the end of the year. But now they have found what could be a problem - radioactive xenon gas detected in a filter in reactor two. Since it has a short half-life, it indicates a possibility of resumed nuclear fission in recent days. Tepco says the temperature of the reactor, which has been below boiling point, has not increased, indicating any reaction would be small. It is not ruling out a false reading but boric acid, which suppresses fission, was injected into the reactor overnight. Meanwhile, elsewhere in Japan a reactor has been switched on for the first time since the disaster. Safety fears mean local authorities have been refusing permission for restarts after routine maintenance. Dozens of facilities are offline amid concern about electricity shortages.
About 6,000 Chinese schoolchildren have been sent home amid fears for the safety of buildings near the site of an explosion on Tuesday, state media says. Two trucks packed with explosives blew up while they were in a repair garage, killing eight people and leaving more than 200 wounded. Officials in Fuquan city, Guizhou province, ordered schools closed while they carried out safety tests. The cause of the explosion is still being investigated. The state-run Xinhua news agency said some 50 schoolchildren and seven teachers were among those hurt in the blast. Six schools had windows shattered by the blast and were ordered to be shut, the agency quoted local education officials as saying. Analysts say Chinese officials are particularly sensitive about safety standards in schools, after many schoolchildren died in an earthquake in Sichuan province in 2008. The government was criticised by the children's families, who questioned why schools had collapsed but many other buildings - including government offices - were still standing. The Fuquan explosion wrecked buildings and scattered shards of glass - one of the main causes of injuries. An eyewitness described being blown of his feet by the power of the blast. "I stood up and ran to the houses over there for shelter, but when I got there, the houses were all smashed," he said. Medical officials warned that the death toll could rise because several of those being treated in hospital had been seriously injured.
The Northern Ireland Health and Safety Executive (HSENI) has expressed concern about a rise in the number of deaths on farms in the last year. The number of fatalities has risen from seven to 11 with the executive particularly worried about the age of those being killed. Malcolm Downey from HSENI said that the average age of those killed was 57. He urged farmers to step back and reconsider before taking on any farm job. This year, four people have been killed after livestock accidents, three have died after falling from a height, two where machinery was involved, one from drowing and one in a tree-felling accident. Mr Downey said it was too soon to identify any trend in those deaths but there was a clear pattern in fatalities over the past 15 years. Those were: He said the average age of a farmer was rising and many did not retire, playing an active and important role. "Sadly though, if they are injured, it's not as easy for them to bounce back, to recover from their injuries," he added. He urged older farmers to "get a bit of help" where it would be of benefit to them, particularly when work needed done at height. "Farmers going out to work need to stop, to think, to ask themselves what may have changed," Mr Downey added. "Look at the equipment they are using. Are the brakes working? Do they know how to use it properly?"
A 22-storey tower block has been approved close to the site of the Ministry of Sound nightclub in south-east London, three weeks after another development nearby was rejected. The site, on Newington Causeway near Elephant and Castle, will contain 38 flats and three floors of shops. Southwark Council's planners approved the scheme by four votes to three. The club said it was "extremely disappointed" and thought the decision was "wrong". It had fought the proposals, fearing people moving into the flats could submit complaints about noise levels which might lead to the venue closing. The council said the new block was in "a prime location" in central London and part of the regeneration area around Elephant and Castle. "Any improvement to this area would be of great benefit to local people," said Councillor Fiona Colley, the borough's cabinet member for regeneration. "We appreciate that the Ministry of Sound is a valued club, business and local employer which we have no intention of seeing close. "I believe the club can and will remain open alongside new residential developments," she added. But Lohan Presencer, the venue's chief executive, said his firm was taking legal advice "and will be doing everything we can to prevent this catastrophic threat to the future of our business". "We believe that the council has mishandled this application, failed to understand or acknowledge its implications at every turn and that they have now misdirected their councillors to the wrong decision," he said. The club collected 25,000 signatures when opposing the previous development, which proposed 315 homes on the same street. The musician Example was among those speaking out about the proposal, which the council rejected on the grounds of noise and as it did not meet requirements for affordable housing.
Almost £14m in public money is being used over the next four years to improve services used by people with autism and Asperger Syndrome. The investment will result in a new drop-in service for those diagnosed with the condition. The Scottish government and local authority umbrella body Cosla are supporting the £13.4m initiative. The money will also be spent on employing more autism co-ordinators to provide information and support. Public Health Minister Michael Matheson said people with autism, and their families, "needed to be supported by a range of services such as social care, education, housing, employment and other community-based services". He added: "I am delighted therefore to be launching, with Cosla, the Scottish Strategy for Autism, backed up with £13.4m of resources, to deliver the improvements necessary for the individuals and families. "This includes the appointment of local autism co-ordinators who will help ensure people with autism are given the care and support they need in a way which promotes their independence and emotional well-being and respects their dignity. "We also want to see more drop-in centres similar to Number 6, which provides services under one roof for people with autism. "The new strategy includes recommendations which we will now take forward with our colleagues in local government. We will each receive an annual progress report for which we will be jointly accountable."
A former Colombian beauty queen has been jailed for nearly seven years in Argentina for running an international drug trafficking ring. Model Angie Sanclemente Valencia, 31, had denied helping her boyfriend recruit other young women to smuggle cocaine to Europe via Mexico. She said she had come to Argentina to get married, not to smuggle drugs - her only crime was to fall in love. Her Argentine boyfriend Nicolas Gualco was given the same sentence. Several other accomplices were also jailed or given suspended sentences. Throughout the trial Ms Sanclemente insisted she was innocent. She said she had come to Argentina to marry Mr Gualco but did not realise he was involved in crime - a story he backed up. But prosecutors maintained she had been the international nexus of the drug trafficking ring. Ms Sanclemente was arrested in Buenos Aires in May last year after five months on the run. She said she had gone into hiding after her boyfriend was arrested because she feared being raped in prison. The investigation began after another accomplice was caught trying to board a flight to Cancun in Mexico with 55kg of cocaine in her suitcases. In 2000 Ms Sanclemente won the popular Colombian title of Coffee Queen, but had to return it when it was discovered she was married, in breach of the beauty pageant's rules.
Tokyo Electric Power Company (Tepco) is to receive 900bn yen ($11.5bn; Â£7bn) in bailout funds after the government approved its business plan. The funds are part of the government's bailout plan for Tepco, which has just reported a six month loss of 627bn yen. The earthquake and tsunami in March damaged its Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, resulting in radiation leaks. It may have to pay $100bn (Â£62bn) in compensation claims relating to those leaks. About 80,000 people living with 20km (12 miles) of the Fukushima plant were forced to abandon their homes after the radiation leaks and many businesses were forced to shut down. Tepco reported a net loss of 627bn yen for the six months from April to September, due to the costs of dealing with the crisis at Fukushima. That figure compares with a net profit of 92.3bn yen in the same period last year. The losses, coupled with the huge compensation claims it faces, had raised concerns about the long-term prospects of the company, prompting the government to step in to bail out the company. The government set up a special fund to help Tepco compensate the victims and maintain its operations. However, the government had asked the company to submit a business plan indicating how it intended to turn around its fortunes, in order to receive the funding. "I urge Tepco and the bailout fund to implement sincere compensation and thorough restructuring, taking into account that they are borrowing a massive amount of money from Japanese citizens," Japan's trade minister Yukio Edano said. The company submitted its proposal last week, saying it would help it cut almost 2.5tn yen in costs over the next 10 years.
A memorial has been unveiled to a Carmarthenshire woman who died while taking part in the Greenham Common peace protests. Helen Thomas, from Newcastle Emlyn, died aged 22 after being struck by a police vehicle in 1989. A bench was dedicated in her memory in the town centre on Sunday. Women from across the UK camped outside the Berkshire airbase during the 1980s and 1990s to protest at nuclear missiles being sited there. Mayor Hazel Evans said the town council wanted to honour her memory and her commitment to peace. The bench is by the town clock in Newcastle Emlyn. Members of Miss Thomas's family joined the service along with prominent peace campaigners from Wales. Folk singer Dafydd Iwan who wrote a song about Miss Thomas was also taking part. Before the ceremony, Mrs Evans said: "Last year it was the 21st anniversary of her death and there was a service at Greenham Common. "She was born and went to school in Newcastle Emlyn and her family still have a business here. "We felt it was appropriate to remember her fight against nuclear weapons." Following her death, Miss Thomas's family challenged the verdict of accidental death at the High Court but the judge refused to re-open the inquest. The first Cruise missiles were delivered to Greenham Common in November 1983. The last one was removed in March 1991. During the height of the protests, thousands of women blocked the entrances to the base, cut through perimeter fences and formed human chains around the site. The airbase was closed in 1993 but the peace camp remained until 2000.
A hedgehog left brain damaged after an attack when it was "kicked like a football" has moved into a garden owned by Queen guitarist Brian May. The hedgehog, which was attacked in April outside Arena Leisure Centre in Camberley, Surrey, was taken in by Harper Asprey Wildlife Rescue charity. Animal welfare champion May, who has homes in London and Surrey, is a long-term supporter of the rescue centre. He owns the land where Percy has been rehomed after being nursed to health. The animal, thought to be about three years old, was put in a bag and swung round in the attack, and had a concrete block dropped on it. Police called to the incident took Percy to Harper Asprey. An operation saved his life but shattered shards of bone had to be removed along with part of a hip joint. "Fortunately Percy came to us within an hour of the attack and we were able to treat him and prevent him going further into shock," said a spokesman for the charity. "When Percy arrived he was still tightly balled and in shock, but as he relaxed we could see lesions and areas of swelling all over his body. "The swelling continued in front of our eyes. This is one of the most horrific wildlife incidents we have seen in a long time. "Percy will be unable to return to the wild as he is unable to curl properly and this would prevent him finding food and make him vulnerable to predators." The brain damage has left Percy slightly slower than normal but he will be kept in a protected environment. The attacker was prosecuted by the RSPCA and given a nine-week suspended jail sentence with a 12-month supervision order.
The Co-operative Group has confirmed it will submit a second-round bid next week for the hundreds of branches being sold by Lloyds Banking Group. Lloyds is selling 632 branches and £36bn of deposits, after being ordered to by the European Commission following the bank's rescue by the UK government. The government currently still holds a 41% stake in Lloyds. BBC business editor Robert Peston said so far Lloyds had received only one bid, of about £1.5bn, from NBNK. NBNK was co-founded by Lord Levene, chairman of insurer Lloyd's of London, in 2010 as a business set up to establish a UK retail bank. The bid from the Co-op came in the same week as LLoyds chief executive Antonio Horta-Osorio decided to take a temporary leave of absence, to recover from exhaustion. Co-op chief executive Peter Marks said: "We have a clear strategy for driving the Co-operative Group forwards. As part of this we remain interested in the Lloyds Banking Group's branch assets as we believe this would support our moves to grow our relationship banking business in the UK. "Our bid for the assets is non-binding and we would only proceed if we could reach an agreement that was in the interests of our members and other stakeholders."
Paul Hanagan has successfully defended the Flat jockeys' championship after nearest rival Silvestre de Sousa failed to win all his races at Doncaster. De Sousa had closed to within four wins ahead of the final day, with four rides to Hanagan's seven at the meeting. But, when he failed to win on his first mount - True Bond - in the 1325 GMT Betfred Mobile Nursery, Yorkshireman Hanagan's title was confirmed. Hanagan said: "It's a relief. It feels like a big weight has been lifted." The Malton-based rider won the title last year when he saw off Richard Hughes after a close-fought battle. Hanagan faced a similar challenge this season, with Kieren Fallon and De Sousa also in the hunt for the title. It didn't feel as hard this year and I definitely learned a lot last season. De Sousa had kept the battle alive with a four-timer at Wolverhampton on Friday, but Hanagan was delighted to prevail. Hanagan added: "It's gone right down to the wire again. "Last night was incredible but I've stuck at it and kept going. "This season seemed to come around so quickly. It didn't feel like two minutes since the last season ended and the new one began, but in a good way the balls just kept on rolling. "It's still been tough but last year I spent a lot of time watching Richard Hughes on TV whereas this year I was mainly riding in the same races as Silvestre. "He's been riding out of his skin and deserves a lot of respect. We've just had a quiet moment when he came up and shook my hand. "I'm just going to enjoy this."
The case of an American-Israeli couple who want the US to recognise their Jerusalem-born son's place of birth as Israel has reached the Supreme Court. Menachem Zivotofsky's US passport lists Jerusalem as his birthplace, but his country of birth has been left blank. The Zivotofsky family sued the state department shortly after their son was born in October 2002. The status of Jerusalem is highly contentious, as the city is claimed by both Israel and the Palestinians. Naomi and Ari Zivotofsky and their son, now nine years old, have flown from Israel to attend Monday's hearing at the Supreme Court. Thirty-nine Democratic and Republican members of Congress have backed the family. They cite a provision in a 2002 law, the Foreign Relations Authorisation Act, allowing Israel to be listed as the birthplace for Americans born in Jerusalem. But former President George W Bush overrode that provision, saying it interfered with his authority over foreign affairs. The Obama administration says it does not want to appear to take sides on the status of Jerusalem. State department guidelines say: "For a person born in Jerusalem, write Jerusalem as the place of birth in the passport." However, the Zivotofsky family have pointed to official documents from federal agencies that refer to "Jerusalem, Israel". They also argue that in the part of Jerusalem where their son was born - in the west of the city - there is no serious dispute over Israeli sovereignty. Israel's declaration of Jerusalem as its capital in 1950 has not been recognised by the majority of the international community.
Bolivia and the US have agreed to restore full diplomatic ties three years after the US ambassador to La Paz was expelled by President Evo Morales. In an agreement signed in Washington, the two nations pledged to work together to fight drug trafficking. President Morales expelled US drug enforcement agents and the ambassador, Philip Goldberg, in 2008, accusing them of conspiring against the government. But relations have improved and talks began last year to reinstate ties. The agreement sees "the swift return of ambassadors to Washington and La Paz," according to a Bolivian Foreign Ministry statement cited by Reuters news agency. "The accord's objectives include strengthening and deepening bilateral relations... (and) supporting efficient co-operation against the production and trafficking of illegal drugs," the statement said. But the pact does not mention whether US drug agents will return to Bolivia, the world's third largest cocaine producer. In 2008, Mr Morales, a critic of Washington's policies in Latin America, accused Mr Goldberg of inciting pro-autonomy opposition leaders in the country's eastern lowlands. The Bolivian president - who also heads the country's coca growers' union - expelled US drug enforcement agents two months afterwards. In response, the US sent the Bolivian ambassador back. Correspondents say relations between the two countries have gradually improved since the row, but tensions remain. In March, Mr Morales hit out at the US government over critical drug reports which the Bolivian leader said were intended to link his government with narcotic smuggling.
The government and military control nearly all the national terrestrial television networks and operate many of Thailand's radio networks. Multichannel TV, via cable and satellite, is widely available. The radio market, particularly in Bangkok, is fiercely competitive. There are more than 60 stations in and around the capital. The media are free to criticise government policies, and cover instances of corruption and human rights abuses, but journalists tend to exercise self-censorship regarding the military, the monarchy, the judiciary and other sensitive issues. Restrictions on media output accompanied the introduction of martial law and an army coup in May 2014. The print media are largely privately-run, with a handful of Thai-language dailies accounting for most newspaper sales. There were some 23 million internet users by 2012. Pornographic sites, anti-monarchy sites and anti-government sites are subject to filtering. Hundreds of websites were blocked by the military following the 2014 coup. Facebook is the most popular social network. Bangkok Post - English-language The Nation - English-language Daily News - mass-circulation Thai-language daily Thairath - mass-circulation Thai-language daily Thai TV3 - operated by the Mass Communications Organization of Thailand (MCOT), a government agency TV5 - owned by Royal Thai Army BBTV Channel 7 - owned by Royal Thai Army ModerNine (Channel 9) - operated by government agency MCOT Thai Public Broadcasting Service (TPBS) - public TV, created under 2008 legislation Radio Thailand - national network and external service operated by National Broadcasting Services of Thailand (NBT), part of government Public Relations Department MCOT Radio Network - run by government agency MCOT; operates stations in Bangkok and provincial networks Army Radio - owned by Royal Thai Army MCOT online news - English-language pages
Children whose parents frequently read with them in their first year of school are still showing the benefit when they are 15, says an international study. An Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development analysis examined the long-term impact of parental support on literacy. Discounting social differences, the study found children with early support remained ahead in reading. It found a strong link between teenage reading skills and early parental help. The OECD analysis, based on teenagers in 14 developed countries, found that active parental involvement at the beginning of school was a significant trigger for developing children's reading skills that would carry through until they were teenagers. On average, teenagers whose parents had helped with reading at the beginning of school were six months ahead in reading levels at the age of 15. The report says that parents did not have to be particularly well-educated themselves for this impact to be achieved. What was important was that parents read books regularly with their children - such as several times a week - and that they talked about what they were reading together. This parental involvement overrode other social disadvantages and in some countries could represent more than a year's advantage in reading levels at the age of 15 compared with children whose parents rarely read books with them. The study, which draws on data from the international Programme for International Student Assessment tests, also found a link between teenagers' reading skills and continued engagement with their parents. Everyday family get-togethers, where parents and children talk, could influence school performance, says the research. "Eating main meals together around the table and spending time just talking with one's children are also associated with significantly better student reading performance in school," says the OECD report.
The Lord Mayor of Bristol and a fellow Conservative councillor have had their cars set on fire. Mayor Geoff Gollop and Councillor Kevin Quartley found their vehicles burnt out at their homes, after two separate attacks in the early hours of Monday. Avon and Somerset Police confirmed officers were called to properties in Henleaze and Bishopsworth. He said the incidents were being treated as suspicious but it was unclear if they were linked. "Anyone who was in  Fallodon Way, Henleaze, or Kings Walk, Bishopsworth, in the early hours of Monday, is asked to contact police or Crimestoppers anonymously," the force spokesman added. "Attacks such as these are cowardly and disgraceful, and we wish the investigators well in their efforts at bringing those responsible to justice," a statement from all political parties on the Liberal-Democrat-controlled council said. Mr Gollop, who represents Westbury-on-Trym ward, said it was more frightening thinking about the fire afterwards. "At the time the only concern was to get the family clear of the house and make sure we were all safe. "It's only looking back on it that you wonder why and what caused anybody to think anything can be dealt with in that particular way," he added.
A "forgotten hero" of Scottish science is to be honoured by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). It is to announce the award of a chemical landmark plaque to mark the 200th anniversary of James Young's birth in Drygate, Glasgow. "Paraffin" Young distilled a liquid seeping from a coal mine which could light lamps or lubricate machinery. By opening the world's first oil refinery, he laid the foundations for the modern oil industry. His innovation in 1851, nine years before the Americans started drilling for oil, created a shale oil boom around the Bathgate refinery in West Lothian. In contrast to many scientific pioneers, Young reaped the rewards of his innovation, amassing fabulous wealth. He used his fortune to indulge his passions for yachting, travelling and scientific study. Young also funded philanthropic projects, financing explorer and anti-slavery campaigner David Livingstone's African journeys. But, since his death in 1883, Young's fame has waned. RSC President Prof David Phillips has said it is time a statue is raised in his memory. In a speech prepared for the RSC's Science and the Scottish parliament event, he said: "Not only was James Young a great scientist, he was a great human being and his legacy continues today. "He paid for statues in memory of his great friend David Livingstone and to his old mentor Thomas Graham - at Glasgow Cathedral and in George Square respectively. "Surely it is time we pay for a statue in James Young's honour to inspire the scientists of the future."
The new chief executive of Literature Wales has been appointed. Lleucu Siencyn had been acting chief executive of the organisation responsible for developing and promoting literature in Wales. Ms Siencyn, from Talgarreg, Ceredigion, who studied English at Oxford University, has started several new projects, including setting up the Young People's Laureate for Wales. She was formerly a literature officer for the Arts Council of Wales (ACW). "The oldest art form in Wales has just got itself a new face," said John Pikoulis, Literature Wales joint chair. It is one of the resident organisations at the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff, where it runs the Glyn Jones Centre. It is made up of Yr Academi Gymreig / The Welsh Academy, the Society for Writers of Wales, and TÅ· Newydd Writers' Centre. Mr Pikoulis said: "The appointment of Lleucu Siencyn will be widely welcomed in the literary community. "It signals the beginning of a new programme of activity, built on the achievement of Academi and TÅ·  Newydd but greatly expanding on it, to heighten the public's awareness and enjoyment of literature and to reach all parts of Wales in a manner befitting a national company." Ms Siencyn worked as a researcher and scriptwriter with various television companies before taking up the ACW post. She was Academi's deputy chief executive between 2002-2011.
Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL have announced an alliance in online advertising to rival Facebook and Google. The deal will begin in January and means they can sell each others' unsold internet display ads. The three firms say they intend to share some resources, but will keep their sales teams separate and competitive. The companies hope that by utilising each others' resources, they can save money and increase advertising revenue. Rik van der Kooi, from Microsoft Advertising Business Group, said in a conference call that he did not expect any problems arising from anti-trust legislation. "The competition is only going to increase. [We] don't expect any issues on that side," he said. Yahoo executive vice-president Ross Levinsohn said the tie-up was a "fundamental rethinking" of the internet ad market. That could be a tall order, as Google and Facebook increasingly dominate the online ad market and are forecast to increase their share, according to research company eMarketer. The latest figures show Facebook has a 16% share and Google 9% of the US online ad market. In contrast, the alliance group of companies are all expected to lose ground in the US market. The latest figures from eMarketer show a 13% share for Yahoo, 5% at Microsoft and 4% at AOL.
A British soldier has been killed by a bomb in Afghanistan - the 385th fatality since the campaign began. The soldier, from the 4th Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment, died on Wednesday at Babaji in Helmand province. He was serving with 1st Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment as a part of a Combined Force in Lashkar Gah.  His next of kin have been informed. The death of the soldier - the 385th in Afghanistan since 2001 - gives added poignancy to Remembrance Sunday. Last week Private Matthew Haseldin, 21, of Settle, North Yorkshire, was killed in Afghanistan and during Prime Minister's Question Time David Cameron and Ed Miliband both paid tribute to him. His body is due to be repatriated on Thursday. Reacting to Wednesday's death, Lieutenant Colonel Gordon Mackenzie, a spokesman for Task Force Helmand, said: "We are greatly saddened by the news of this soldier's death." "We will keep him and his loved ones in our thoughts as we carry on with our important mission. His loss is not in vain," he added. The 4th Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment are based at Worsley Barracks in York. The death comes in the middle of a row over England's footballers wearing poppies. On Wednesday Fifa relented and agreed to allow England to wear the poppy symbol on their shirts during Saturday's friendly against Spain.
Low levels of radioactive particles have been detected in the Czech Republic and elsewhere in Europe, the UN nuclear agency has said. The iodine-131 particles do not pose a public health risk, the International Atomic Energy Agency said. The body said it was trying to work out where the particles had come from but said it did not believe the source was Japan's stricken Fukushima plant. It said the Czech Republic had first informed them of the raised levels. "The IAEA believes the current trace levels of iodine-131 that have been measured do not pose a public health risk and are not caused by the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in Japan," the body said in a statement. It said iodine-131 was a short-lived radioisotope with a radioactive decay half-life of about eight days. The Czech nuclear security authority said it had been detecting radioactive iodine-131 at a number of monitoring stations since late October and had informed the IAEA to see if it could identify the source, Reuters reports. Czech nuclear safety chief Dana Drabova said the iodine could have leaked during production of radiopharmaceuticals. It was certainly not from a nuclear power plant, she said, adding that they were almost certain that the source was abroad. Slightly elevated readings of radioactive iodine have also been found in northern Germany, the country's environment ministry said. But the levels were so low they were barely detected, a spokeswoman quoted by Reuters news agency said. The environment ministry spokeswoman said the radioactivity could not have come from a nuclear power plant. In the days and weeks after the Japan's accident, minuscule amounts of iodine-131 believed to have come from Fukushima were detected as far away as Iceland and other parts of Europe, as well as in the US.
A man who barricaded himself into a house in an armed siege in Norfolk has been jailed for three years. David Cawston, 46, was arrested after a 32-hour stand-off with police negotiators and armed response teams in New Costessey which ended on 6 May. Cawston, of New Costessey, admitted two counts of possessing an air pistol with intent to cause fear or violence at Norwich Crown Court. It was claimed he felt frustrated over complaints to police. The court heard armed police were called when Cawston telephoned officers, saying he had a weapon. Cawston then barricaded himself inside the property and left a list of demands to police on a shed roof. At one point, Cawston came out of the house and told police "Fill me full of bullets", the court was told. It was claimed Cawston did not point the gun at police but had tapped the window with the weapon, which later turned out not to be loaded. Prosecuting, Nick Methold said Cawston had been frustrated over information he claimed to have on criminal issues. Ian James, on behalf of Cawston, said his client had wanted to help police, not thwart them. Sentencing Cawston, Recorder of Norwich Judge Peter Jacobs said: "For reasons not fully explained, you seem to lose all sense of self-control."
A 34-year-old woman has become the second person in three weeks to die at a busy junction on a cycle superhighway in east London. The victim was pronounced dead at the Bow Roundabout at about 16:45 GMT on Friday, the Metropolitan Police said. The crash also involved a lorry and the driver of this vehicle has been arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. Last month a 58-year-old man was killed in a collision with a tipper truck. Transport for London (TfL) said at the time that he was the first person to be killed on the superhighway network. Four priority lanes for cyclists have been painted blue around London, and another eight are due to open within the next four years. The safety of the Bow Roundabout was questioned on Wednesday by John Biggs, a Labour member of the London Assembly. He called on Mayor Boris Johnson to "get an urgent grip on this situation and show leadership to make our roads safe for cyclists". "TfL have previously said that there is nothing that they can do to make the roundabout safer, without causing traffic jams. "It is time they bite the bullet and accept longer journey times for motorists in exchange for keeping pedestrians and cyclists safe." TfL has yet to comment on Friday's crash. The A11 has been partially closed while investigations take place.
Police are making a fresh appeal for information four years after a 40-year-old Merseyside man was shot dead. Colin Smith was shot on Alderwood Road in Speke at about 20:00 GMT on 13 November 2007. The father-of-five had been at Nels Gym and was on his way back to his black Ford Galaxy car when when he was targeted near The Millhouse pub. Officers are appealing to anyone who was in the area at the time who may have seen anything to come forward. Det Ch Supt Steve Naylor said: "There is no doubt in my mind there are people out there who know who shot Colin Smith and over time allegiances may have changed and I would appeal to anyone who has information which could help us find those responsible to come forward. "This was a particularly callous and cold-blooded crime, which deprived five children - aged between six and 16-years at the time of the murder - of their father. "We believe that Colin Smith had visited Nels Gym and was on his way back to his car when he was shot. "He was well known locally and Speke is a very close-knit community - there may be someone in the area who could have information which could help us with our inquiries." Mr Smith's widow, Caroline, said: "It's been four years since Colin was murdered and I can't rest until the people who carried out this cowardly attack on my husband are caught and put before the courts. "I am convinced there are people out there who know who killed Colin and I can't understand how they can stand by and say nothing, they are as cowardly as the person who pulled the trigger." Anyone with information is urged to contact police.
The United States has apologised after former Indian President APJ Abdul Kalam was frisked at a New York airport. The government in Delhi complained after the 80-year-old was frisked on board the aircraft, and had his jacket and shoes briefly taken away. India has complained in the past about its treatment of dignitaries by US air staff - including a previous incident involving Mr Kalam in 2009. Protocol exempts former presidents and other dignitaries from such searches. The incident happened after Mr Kalam had taken his seat on board the Air India flight at JFK airport on 29 September. Security staff forced the crew to open the plane door, and then took away Mr Kalam's jacket and boots because they had not done the necessary checks before boarding, the Press Trust of India (PTI) quoted sources as saying. "The United States government extended its apology that appropriate procedures for expedited screening of dignitaries had not been followed," a statement from the US embassy in Delhi said. "We deeply regret the inconvenience that resulted for him," it added. Mr Kalam, president from 2002 to 2007, received an apology from America's Continental Airlines in 2009 after he was frisked before he boarded a flight to the US. India demanded an apology last December after its ambassador to the US, Meera Shankar, was pulled from an airport security line and frisked by a security agent in Mississippi - even after her diplomatic status had been revealed. Some reports said Ms Shankar, who was on her way from a conference, was singled out because she was wearing a sari.
Clashes in northern Egypt between army and protesters against pollution from a fertiliser plant have left one man dead and at least 11 people injured. Demonstrators sealed off the port town of Damietta, in a series of protests that have lasted six days. The protests were sparked by concern over pollution from the existing plant and plans to build two more locally. Egypt's ruling military council has announced that the fertiliser plant is to be closed. The BBC Cairo correspondent, Jon Leyne, says the protest is an example of the kind of activism that would probably not have been tolerated under Egypt's former ruler, Hosni Mubarak, but is now happening more and more frequently. The fertiliser plant is jointly owned by state-owned Misr Oil Processing Company and Canada's Agrium. Residents first took to the streets on Tuesday demanding the relocation of the plant. On subsequent days, the city's port on the Mediterranean coast and roads next to it were sealed off. A witness told the Reuters news agency that protesters had taken over an ambulance carrying the corpse of a 21-year-old man killed in the clashes on Sunday, and driven it to the governor's office, chanting anti-government slogans.  A medical source said the dead man had been shot. The Egyptian news agency said the port had been reopened on Monday.
The first Test Championship, expected to take place in England in 2013, will not now be played before 2017. The tournament was set to replace the Champions Trophy, a one-day competition that was last held in 2009. "I am disappointed it is not going to take place sooner," said International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Haroon Lorgat. The Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) described the announcement as "a setback for Test cricket". The Test Championship, due to involve the top four teams in the ICC rankings, had been planned as a way of reviving international interest in the five-day format. England currently lead the rankings, with South Africa second, India third and Australia in fourth. Lorgat added that the proposed 2017 Championship, also scheduled to be held in England, would be "the first opportunity" to resurrect the tournament. The delay comes because of a lack of "support and consent" from the ICC's broadcast partner. England were originally awarded the 2013 Champions Trophy, which would have made way in the international cricket calendar for the Test Championship. Lord's was set to be the venue for the final of Test Championship, but after missing out on welcoming the touring New Zealand team for a five-day game, the ground may only host one Test in 2013. MCC head of cricket John Stephenson said: "The club's priority, given there will be a gap in the calendar in 2013, will be to secure the best possible major matches it can for Lord's to supplement the Australia Test and the New Zealand one-day international being played that year."
Cameroon have refused to travel to play an international friendly in a dispute over money. Their game against Algeria, which had been scheduled for Tuesday, has been called-off as a result. The row broke out after the team played two games, against Morocco and Sudan, in Marrakesh. Bonuses and appearance fees for the mini-tournament were not paid and the players decided not to go to Algeria in protest. The players reiterate their patriotism [but] call on the authorities to fulfill their commitments "The problem of the fees was raised a week ago and no solution has been found," the players said in a statement. "The team played with commitment and professionalism in Marrakesh, but have decided not to go to Algeria to play the match scheduled for 15 November. "The players of the national team reiterate their patriotism and call on the Cameroonian football authorities to fulfill their commitments to the players." The dispute is a major problem for new Indomitable Lions coach Denis Lavagne, who replaced the sacked Javier Clemente last month. Not all the players were happy with the departure of Clemente, despite the Indomitable Lions' failure to qualify for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations. Lavagne is understood to be resisting moves by Cameroon Football Federation (Fecafoot) officials to impose wholesale sanctions on the squad. The failure to pay bonuses and appearance fees on time is part of a long-standing dispute between Fecafoot and the country's sports ministry, which largely funds the international team.
Cumbria Police has announced further job cuts as part of plans to save more than £20m over the next five years. The force has already said the number of police officers is to reduce from 1,230 to 1,150. A review has concluded a further 56 staff posts are also to be axed. The force employs 741 civilian staff. Additional measures including departmental mergers and the introduction of new technology, is expected to save about £1.6m a year. Chief Constable Craig Mackey said: "Our challenge is to continue providing an excellent policing service to the people of Cumbria on a reduced budget, so we are making some difficult choices. "I am very conscious that when we talk about making savings we are often talking about people's jobs, but we have got to make these savings, and we have got to deliver the best possible police service that we can with the amount of money available. "To achieve this, we have had to prioritise our frontline services, and streamline our support functions, by being more innovative and creative and by using new technology. "There is no doubt we will be a smaller organisation after we implement these changes, but we are firmly committed to providing frontline policing in local neighbourhoods and maintaining a good performance with low levels of crime and antisocial behaviour across Cumbria."
A prominent poet from Chechnya, Ruslan Akhtakhanov, has been shot dead in Moscow. Police said his death appeared to be a contract killing. The 58-year-old was shot several times by an unidentified gunman as he left his car outside his home in north-west Moscow on Tuesday night. Mr Akhtakhanov had opposed the Chechen separatist movement, believing Chechnya should remain part of Russia. "An unknown person shot at Akhtakhanov twice: first in the leg and then in the head," the Investigations Committee of Russia said in a statement. The Interfax news agency quoted police sources as saying that Mr Akhtakhanov was shot at about midnight and that the killer escaped in a car which was later found several blocks away. A pistol with a silencer was found in the car. Mr Akhtakhanov was a professor at the Modern Humanitarian Academy in Moscow. He received a special journalism prize in 2009 for a book of poems called "I am proud of Chechnya, which gave heroes to the world". On his website, he describes himself as an educator and an advocate of Chechnya remaining part of Russia. The Kremlin has been fighting insurgents in the North Caucasus since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. It waged two wars against separatist rebels in Chechnya, in 1994-96, and in 1999-2000. Since the second Chechen war ended in 2000, the rebels have waged an insurgency, with the unrest spreading into other areas of the North Caucasus.
A Dutch artist has unveiled an exhibit which features a million photos that were uploaded to Flickr, Facebook and Google over a 24 hour period. Erik Kessels said he wanted to demonstrate how internet users are bombarded with images on a daily basis. The Photography In Abundance installation is part of the What's Next display at Foam Amsterdam. "The idea was to present it as a sea of images that can you drown in," Kessels told the BBC News website. Visitors are being encouraged to walk over the mountain of photographs and pick them up, which Kessels said could leave visitors feeling strange as "you're walking over personal memories". Kessels only downloaded and printed the photos that were free for people to look at on the internet. "We consume images so fast nowadays, that I was wondering what it would look like if you physically printed off all the images that became available in a 24 hour period," he said. "When you're downloading them and you have one million images on a server, that's not impressive but when you print them out and put them all in one space, that's when it really overwhelms you." The artist said he hopes the installation also shows people "how public your private photos have become". He added: "Before, you had your photo album and only your family and friends could look at. Now people all over the world can look at it if they find it." The artwork was created as part of Foam's 10th anniversary. Jefferson Hack, Alison Nordstrom and Lauren Cornell have also provided installations for the What's Next exhibition, exploring the theme of the future of photography.
Judges at the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague have ordered a full medical examination for the former Bosnian Serb army chief Ratko Mladic. Gen Mladic, 69, told judges he was too ill to attend a hearing last week. He was admitted to hospital last month after his lawyer said he was suffering from pneumonia. Gen Mladic is charged with war crimes in Bosnia in the 1990s, including ordering the massacre of 7,500 Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica in 1995. The court issued a statement saying that the examination has been ordered "to better assess whether and to what extent his health condition could affect the preparation of the upcoming trial". Gen Mladic has complained of health problems throughout the trial process. A medical expert is to be appointed to carry out the examination and report back to the court by 6 December. Independently of the court, Gen Mladic is to be visited this week by a team of Serbian doctors whom he has chosen, the AP news agency reports. In his first appearance in front of the court in June, Gen Mladic called the charges against him "monstrous" and "obnoxious". At his second hearing in July, he had to be removed from the courtroom after arguing with Judge Alfons Orie. After 16 years in hiding, Gen Mladic was arrested in May by Serbian intelligence officers in a village north of Belgrade.
A painting of Piccadilly Circus by LS Lowry has sold at auction for £5.6m, matching the world record price for the artist. The 1960 painting, which is one of two Lowry works of the London landmark, sold at Christie's to a private buyer. It was among 14 works by the Salford painter being auctioned from the Lord Forte Collection. The price was the same as the record-breaking fee paid for The Football Match, which was sold in May. The collection as a whole fetched £17,668,250, which far exceeded the pre-sale estimate, Christie's said. An exhibition of 38 paintings and drawings by Lowry opens next Wednesday at art dealer Richard Green's gallery in Mayfair. Mr Green said: "To sell 14 paintings in one sale shows the breadth of his appeal. A painting by him is more expensive at auction than any Henry Moore sculpture or Damien Hirst painting." Christie's head of 20th Century British and Irish Art Philip Harley said 2011 marked an "unprecedented" year for works from the period, revealing that £41,502,500 had been realised by his department so far. He said: "This inaugural evening sale, which has set the highest total for the category at Christie's, clearly highlights the current market's insatiable appetite for the best 20th Century British and Irish Art."
Thousand of trees are to be felled to slow the spread of a disease which is destroying larch trees in Cornwall. Phytophthora ramorum was first discovered in the UK in 2002 and identified in the South West two years ago. About 11,000 infected Japanese larch trees will be felled to try to prevent the virus spreading from the foliage to other tree and plant species. The infected trees are at Cardinham Woods, Dunmere Wood and East Wood. The Forestry Commission has already felled affected larches in the Glyn Valley and at Idless Woods near Truro. John Ebsary, area forester for Cornwall, said it was disappointing to have to fell trees which had not yet reached full maturity. "But the trees are dying from this highly destructive disease, and we have to try to contain it and prevent any further spread," he said. Some areas of Cardinham will be closed to the public for safety reasons when felling takes place, but Mr Ebsary said disruption would be kept "to an absolute minimum". Visitors to the woods have been asked to help minimise the spread of the disease by following signed bio-security instructions, which include washing footwear before leaving the area. Because the pathogen can remain in the soil for several years, Mr Ebsary said most areas would either be left to regenerate naturally or replanted with different tree species not susceptible to phytophthora ramorum. The felling should be completed by the end of March. In Devon, work began earlier this month to cut down larch trees affected by the disease beside the A38 in Devon between Exeter and Plymouth.
The US has test-fired a new weapon which can travel at five times the speed of sound, the Pentagon says. The missile was launched from Hawaii and reached its target on a Pacific atoll 2,300 miles (3,700km) away in less than half an hour. The Advanced Hypersonic Weapon is part of a programme to build new high-speed long-range missiles. Its aim is to allow the US military to strike targets anywhere in the world within an hour. A statement from the Pentagon said the weapon had been launched using a three-stage booster system, which had successfully sent it into the upper atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean. It reached hypersonic speeds before hitting its target on Kwajalein atoll, part of the Marshall Islands. The term hypersonic is defined as exceeding Mach 5 - five times the speed of sound, or 3,700 mph (6,000km/h). "The objective of the test is to collect data on hypersonic boost-glide technologies and test range performance for long-range atmospheric flight," said the Pentagon statement. The US defence department gave no details of the top speed achieved by the weapon. However, defence analysts Global Security.org say the aim of the programme is to be able to strike a target 3,700 miles (6,000km) away in 35 minutes, with an accuracy of 10m. They say the Advanced Hypersonic Weapon is one of a number of alternatives the Pentagon is considering to allow a conventional weapon to strike "fleeting targets around the globe faster than today's munitions". Earlier this year a congressional report said the programme was part of a project to develop a "prompt global strike" system that can deliver long-range weapons anywhere in the world while avoiding flying over third-party nations.
Concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere rose to yet another high in 2010, according to the UN's weather agency. Levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) - the major contributor to climate change - rose by 2.3 parts per million between 2009 and 2010. That exceeds the average for the past decade of 2.0 parts per million, the World Meteorological Organization says. The latest round of UN climate talks begin in South Africa in two weeks. "The atmospheric burden of greenhouse gases due to human activities has yet again reached record levels since pre-industrial time," said World Meteorological Organization Secretary-General Michel Jarraud. Concentrations of CO2 reached 389 parts per million in 2010 - the highest such concentrations since the start of the industrial era in 1750. CO2 is the greenhouse gas of greatest concern to policy makers looking to stem human-induced climate change. The WMO said levels of methane - considered the second most important greenhouse gas - had risen after a period of relative stabilisation from 1999 to 2006. This could be due to the thawing of the Northern permafrost and increased emissions from tropical wetlands. Nitrous oxide, emitted into the atmosphere from natural and man-made sources, including biomass burning and fertiliser use, was 323.2 parts per billion in 2010 - 20%higher than in the pre-industrial era. The WMO numbers follow the recent release of data from the US Oak Ridge National Laboratory, showing a huge surge in carbon dioxide emissions from 2009 to 2010. The climate talks in Durban, South Africa, run from 28 November to 9 December and are likely to test global resolve to tackle greenhouse emissions.
Hungary has asked the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Union (EU) for financial assistance. As the eurozone debt crisis has unfolded, official figures showed that the Hungarian government's total debt had risen to 82% of its output, as its currency, the forint, has weakened. Hungary has said it wants "a new type of co-operation" with the IMF. The IMF team in Budapest will now return to Washington to discuss the request. The IMF confirmed that it and the European Commission had received a request for assistance. "The authorities... indicated that they plan to treat as precautionary any IMF and EC support that could be made available," the IMF added. Last week, Hungary's economy ministry said in a statement: "The government has started talks with the IMF and the EU about a new agreement that, instead of austerity measures, will aid Hungary's economic growth." The forint fell to a record low against the euro last week and government bond yields have soared. Most mortgages in Hungary are denominated in a foreign currency, in particular the Swiss franc. The weakness of the forint - combined with the strength of the safe haven franc - has made these mortgages painfully expensive for Hungarians top repay. Two ratings agencies have warned that Hungary could lose its investment-grade credit rating due to its weak growth outlook and unpredictable policy track. Hungary is one notch above so-called "junk" status, meaning its cost of borrowing could soar without help. The nation received an IMF-led bailout in 2008, but Prime Minister Viktor Orban ended the 2008 IMF deal, which had been agreed under the previous government, last year. Since then, he has put in place a series of unconventional measures, including big taxes on banks and an effective nationalisation of pension funds.
Farmers in Cuba will be able to sell their goods directly to tourist hotels and restaurants from 1 December 2011, the official Communist Party newspaper Granma has announced. Under the new rules, Cubans will not have to go through government middlemen to sell agricultural produce. For the first time in decades, farmers will also be allowed to take their products to market themselves. The farm reform follows recent moves liberalising Cuban house and car sales. The government said the new rules were meant to cut down on transportation costs and speed up food delivery to the tourism industry. 'Better supply' According to Granma, the reform will allow farmers to "develop mechanisms to supply tourist entities and take better advantage of the potential of all forms of local means of production". Tourism is a key source of revenue for Cuba, but visitors often complain about the poor quality of food. The government is hoping the reform will help provide fresher and more varied products, boosting Cuba's attractiveness. Under the current rules, a state-run body has a monopoly on the sale and distribution of agricultural products. Prices and production volume are set at the start of each harvest. Critics say the state-run system has led to high volumes of food rotting before it could be distributed. The reform is part of a larger overhaul of Cuba's Soviet-style economy, which has already led to changes allowing Cubans to set up their own small businesses and buy and sell cars and homes.
Bruce Springsteen's album Born In The USA and Paul Simon's Graceland are among 25 recordings which are to be inducted into the Grammy Hall Of Fame. The list, made up of both albums and singles, also includes Tina Turner's What's Love Got To Do With It? and Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive. Recording Academy president Neil Portnow said the music has "influenced and inspired" people for generations. The 54th Grammy Awards ceremony will take place on 12 February. A recording of Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech, which he delivered 48 years ago, also features on the list, along with Exile on Main St by the Rolling Stones and Anything Goes by Cole Porter. Other well-known albums on the list include Santana's self-titled debut, which was released in 1969, and Bill Cosby's comedy record, I Started Out As A Child. Established in 1973, more than 850 recording have been recognised in the Hall of Fame. Past inductees include The Beatles and Bob Dylan. "The Recording Academy is dedicated to celebrating a wide variety of great music and sound through the decades," Mr Portnow said in a statement. "We are especially honoured to welcome this year's selection of some of the most influential recordings of the last century. "Marked by both cultural and historical significance, these works truly have influenced and inspired audiences for generations." The event, which will take place at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles, will be broadcast live on US network CBS.
Celtic have signed Sweden international right-back Mikael Lustig on a pre-contract agreement. The 24-year-old defender, who has been with Rosenborg since 2008, will join Celtic in January after signing a three-and-a-half year deal. Lustig told the Glasgow club's website: "This is a really exciting time for me and I am delighted to be committing my future to Celtic. "I know a lot about Celtic, about the size of the club." Lustig won his 23rd cap for Sweden in this month's 1-0 friendly defeat by England at Wembley. We believe he has the qualities to make a real impact at the club and we look forward to him joining us in January "I'm really looking forward to joining this squad, to the challenges ahead and hopefully playing my part in bringing some success to the club," he said. With Wales international Adam Matthews having moved to Glasgow after leaving Cardiff City in the summer, Celtic already have three first-team right-backs on their books, the others being Scotland cap Mark Wilson and South Korea's Cha Du-Ri. However, Celtic manager Neil Lennon said Lustig would be a quality addition to his squad. "We are delighted to bring Mikael to Celtic," he said about a player who can play at full-back or in central defence. "We believe he has the qualities to make a real impact at the club and we look forward to him joining us in January. "He is a player with international pedigree and a defender with great versatility. "He is someone who I feel will be a very positive addition to the squad. "I like his attributes and he can play both positions, but he's predominantly a right-back."
The BBC has agreed a deal to broadcast the Six Nations until 2017. It extends BBC Sport's current deal, which runs until 2013, as exclusive broadcaster of the Six Nations and covers TV, radio and online. This year's tournament saw audiences increase to their highest level for 13 years, with an average audience of 4.7m per match. "The Six Nations is a crown jewel in the sporting calendar," said BBC director of sport Barbara Slater. The championship, the premier annual northern hemisphere rugby union tournament, is contested by England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France and Italy every February and March. "We're delighted that we can continue to bring the tournament to our audiences," Slater added. "Viewing figures continue to grow year on year and we look forward to continuing to work in partnership with the Six Nations to build interest even further through the BBC's unparalleled offering of TV, radio, online and interactive services." In total over 30m people within Britain watched some of this year's tournament. Among the most memorable matches in the 2011 edition were Italy securing a first ever Six Nations win over France and England, who had won their first four matches, being denied the Grand Slam when they lost to Ireland. John Feehan, chief executive of the Six Nations, added: "We are delighted that BBC Sport will maintain, extend and enhance its coverage of the RBS Six Nations, the world's biggest annual rugby tournament, for a further four years to March 2017."
Artist Gerald Laing whose latest work included pop art featuring the late singer Amy Winehouse has died. The 75-year-old was born in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and had been living on the Black Isle, near Inverness. He spent much of the 1960s working in pop art in New York and was a close friend of artists Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. Laing's most famous works included images of actresses Brigitte Bardot and Anna Karina. In October this year, he showcased a series of paintings and drawings of Winehouse in London. Laing was also a sculptor and created a statue of Sherlock Holmes that stands in Edinburgh and also the Exiles, a statue at Helmsdale that recalls the Highland Clearances in Scotland. Four Rugby Players at Twickenham Stadium, Ten Dragons at London's Bank Underground Station and The Glass Virgins at Standard Life's building in Edinburgh are among his other sculptures. It was understood Laing had been battling cancer. The artist's son Farquhar said his father had been a truly talented man. Speaking at his family home at Kinkell Castle on the Black Isle, he said his father painted, sculpted, drew and rebuilt cars, castles and motorcycles, but added that his outstanding talent was being a great father. Laing served with the Royal Northumberland Fusiliers following studies at the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst. After leaving the Army, he studied at St Martin's School of Art in London and went on live in the US from 1964 until 1969. He settled in the Scottish Highlands and rebuilt 16th Century Kinkell Castle.
Scientists interested in fluid mechanics are being sought for a Cambridge engineering professorship. Â£1.4m has been put up by James Dyson, the bagless-cleaner inventor, to pay for the post over a 10 year period. The appointed professor will be charged with investigating ways to boost the efficiency of any fan, be it in a cleaner, computer or car dashboard. However, said Sir James, there would be no pressure on the successful candidate to produce results. "What we need is a very good piece of lateral thinking or unusual discovery to make a real breakthrough," Sir James told the BBC. "We are willing to accept that something might not come out of it." He added that many Dyson products would benefit from an improved understanding of how air moves, the sources of turbulence and ways to cut noise. "It's the kind of research we think universities should be doing," said Sir James. "Someone should be given a free rein and an open-ended brief to come with something that's not in anyone's sights at the moment." Candidates were already being interviewed and an appointment would be made as soon as possible, he said. Alongside the theoretical work, Sir James said Dyson also funded research at the University of Cambridge into topics, such as carbon nanotubes, that would have a direct impact on some of its products. "Carbon nanotubes could be a replacement for copper as they are conductive, very strong and incredibly thin," he said. "We believe there are other applications that will come out of that." The company also announced plans to double the research, design and development team at its Malmesbury base to 700.
Madagascar's former President, Didier Ratsiraka, has returned to the island after nine years in exile in France. Mr Ratsiraka, who seized power as a young naval officer in 1975, governed Madagascar until 1991 and again from 1996 to 2002. He left the country after losing disputed elections. His return comes three days after a unity government was unveiled to try to end the political deadlock in Madagascar. In 2003, a Madagascan court sentenced Mr Ratsiraka in his absence to 10 years' hard labour for corruption. However, the current President, Andry Rajoelina, who seized power two years ago, has said that the 75 year old is free to return home. The former president has refused to sign the deal brokered by the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) which aims to resolve Madagascar's long-running political crisis. Journalist Tim Healy told the BBC hundreds of supporters gathered at the airport in the capital, Antananarivo, to welcome Mr Ratsiraka. In a speech, he said he was opposed to the unity government as he believes it is not consensual. "There should be a conference not just by the four main political leaders, but all the other parties and civil society groups must be involved," AFP news agency quotes Mr Ratsiraka as saying. "There's need for reconciliation. I will shake everybody's hands in the overall interest of the nation. The government says it wants to reach out, I'm reaching out in return." But Mr Rajoelina, who is unelected, has already refused the proposal of the so-called "conference of four presidents", reports Mr Healy.
A man stuck in a child's toy car and 36 people trapped in handcuffs were among the call-outs to London firefighters last year, the brigade has revealed. They were among 417 incidents attended by fire crews involving people stuck in objects, machinery and furniture. The removal of rings from fingers accounted for 160 incidents while 74 people had other objects removed. The brigade urged people to take more care to avoid getting themselves into "ridiculous" situations. Dave Brown, the brigade's assistant commissioner for operations and mobilising, said: "You wouldn't believe some of the incidents we're called to deal with... but there is a serious side to this. "These incidents are time-consuming, costly and take up the precious time of our crews who are then unavailable to attend other, potentially life-threatening, emergencies." Among the call-outs between April 2010 and May 2011 was one to a man who went to hospital with a ring stuck on his penis. Two fire engines and 10 firefighters attended the incident and it took 20 minutes to cut the ring off after staff at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Woolwich, south London, were unable to prise it off. The figures showed 133 people had become trapped in or under machinery or other objects, and 14 people had been impaled. Crews were called to a youth wedged in an ironing board in Bromley, a person with their fingers stuck in a DVD player in Barking and several children with toilet seats and potties stuck on their heads.
An Irish-American priest is to be the new papal nuncio to Ireland. Monsignor Charles J Brown is an unusual appointment in that he does not come from the Vatican's diplomatic corps. Instead, he has worked at the Holy See's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF). This means he will be deeply familiar with the Catholic Church's response to child sexual abuse which was central to the CDF's work. The decision to make him papal nuncio is being viewed as an indication of the thought that Rome has invested in the appointment. In November, the Irish government decided to close its embassy to the Vatican in what was described as a cost-cutting measure. The decision was greeted with dismay by Cardinal Sean Brady, Ireland's most senior Catholic cleric. He said he was "profoundly disappointed" by it. Damning report Earlier this year, the Vatican recalled its special envoy in Ireland after a damning report on the Irish Catholic Church's handling of child abuse by priests. Papal Nuncio Giuseppe Leanza was called back to Rome to discuss the impact of the Cloyne Report which showed how allegations of sex abuse by priests in Cork had been covered up. The report led to angry condemnation of the Vatican by Prime Minister Enda Kenny in the Irish Parliament. In a blistering attack, Mr Kenny accused the Church of putting its reputation ahead of child rape victims. Monsignor Brown's nomination has been approved by the Irish government.  However, it is standard practice for the Vatican not to confirm or deny the nomination until it is officially published by the government.
A "soft" robot inspired by squid and starfish can crawl, undulate, and squeeze under obstacles. Built by a team at Harvard University, this robot has several advantages over those with treads, wheels and rigid parts - which have a limited repertoire of movements and may have trouble navigating difficult terrain. The sea creature-inspired creation was manufactured with soft materials and its motion is driven by compressed air. Details appear in the journal PNAS. Professor George Whitesides, Robert Shepherd and their colleagues from Harvard University in Cambridge, US, said the work was inspired by animals such as squid and starfish that lack hard skeletons. The pneumatically-driven robot is built using flexible materials known as "elastomers". Contained within the elastomer layer is a series of chambers that inflate like balloons to enable motion. The robot can adopt different patterns of movement (gaits) during locomotion and its limbs are capable of fluid motions, the Harvard engineers explain. They put their creation through its paces on an obstacle course which, they say, would hinder some rigid, metallic robots. The flexible robot was made to squeeze underneath a glass plate elevated 2cm above the ground in less than a minute by executing a combination of co-ordinated movements. Soft robots are more resistant than more rigid designs to damage from some common hazards in a real-world setting, such as falling on rocks, or receiving bumps and scrapes from other hard objects. But the authors concede that the vulnerable elastomer "skins" of soft robots make them more susceptible to punctures from objects such as broken glass or thorns. Paul.Rincon-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk
England football captain John Terry has been questioned in relation to allegations that he racially abused Anton Ferdinand, the BBC understands. Terry, 30, who is also Chelsea's captain, denies aiming a racist slur at the QPR player in a game on 23 October. The Metropolitan Police confirmed that a "30-year-old man was interviewed under caution on Friday 25 November. He was not arrested." The Football Association is also looking into the incident. Some members of the public claimed video replays from the match at Loftus Road showed Terry using racist language, while the FA said it had received a complaint. Ferdinand has previously given a statement to the FA, saying he has "very strong" feelings on the matter, but will not elaborate until the FA inquiry has been concluded. The FA's investigation into the allegation cannot be completed until the outcome of the police investigation. In a statement following the game at Loftus Road, Terry described the incident as a "misunderstanding" and claimed that his accusers "have leapt to the wrong conclusions about the context of what I was seen to be saying". He added: "I would never say such a thing - and I'm saddened that people would think so."
A large-scale clean-up operation has been carried out after a tanker carrying more than 20 tonnes of waste yeast overturned on the M1. The lorry, initially reported to be carrying Marmite, crashed and spilt its contents onto the carriageway at about 22:15 GMT on Monday. Police closed the motorway in both directions between junctions 32 and 33 near Sheffield following the accident. The Highways Agency said both carriageways had since reopened. A spokeswoman for South Yorkshire Police said the tanker overturned after being involved in a collision with a motor caravan. The tanker driver was taken to hospital but the driver's injuries were not believed to be serious. The Environment Agency was called in to assist in the clean-up after fears that the yeast could pollute local waterways. Environment Agency area incident controller Colin Atkinson said: "Brewers yeast can have a devastating impact on wildlife in watercourses because it strips the water of oxygen, suffocating the fish. "Our incident team worked with the Highways Agency to create a bund to contain the yeast. This prevented it from flowing into nearby Ulley Brook and the River Rother which is an important coarse fishery and is used by many anglers. "Tankers were brought in to take the yeast waste away and our environment officers are checking oxygen levels in the waterways to make sure no pollution has escaped."
Wales lock Luke Charteris will miss the Six Nations after undergoing an operation on a wrist injury. There is a fear that Alun Wyn Jones, who with Charteris formed Wales' first-choice lock partnership at the World Cup, could also miss the tournament. Ospreys captain Jones has had surgery on a toe he dislocated in training. "I had an operation on Friday and, according to the surgeon, it went OK. They said I was looking at four months [out]," Charteris said. With Dragons captain Charteris and Jones missing for the 24-18 defeat to Australia on Saturday, Wales coach Warren Gatland opted to start with Bradley Davies and the recalled Ian Evans at lock. The versatile Ryan Jones can also play in the second row as well as the Osprey's preferred back-row spot. Alun Wyn Jones injured his toe in training while Charteris picked up his injury, a similar wrist problem to the one Wales centre Jamie Roberts suffered in July 2010, in Wales' bronze medal play-off defeat by Australia at the World Cup in New Zealand. Charteris, 28, will also miss the remainder of the Dragons's Amlin Challenge Cup campaign. Jones, 26, is now expected to miss the rest of the Ospreys's Heineken Cup fixtures - and Gatland fears he will miss Wales' Six Nations opener against Ireland in Dublin on 5 February.
Germany's top administrative court has ruled that a student does not have an automatic right to pray at school. The case was brought by an 18-year-old Muslim pupil at a Berlin school after he was told by his head teacher that prayer was not allowed on the school grounds. The teenager and several other pupils kneeled in a hallway during a break to pray. The court found that the school could ban prayer if the act caused conflict. The decision brings to an end a four-year legal battle by the pupil, Yunus Mitschele. He is a student at a grammar school in the mixed area of Wedding, which had experienced clashes between groups of Muslim students over prayer rituals. The court found that the conflict that might be expected at the school if religious acts were allowed would be beyond the level that school staff could deal with. Setting aside a room specifically for prayer would be beyond the organisational capacity of the school, it said. The judges at the Federal Administrative Court, in Leipzig, stressed that the ruling did not mean that no student could pray at school. The decision should be made on a case by case basis. The German constitution guarantees freedom of religion and so a school pupil would generally be entitled to pray when at school, outside of lesson times. Judge Werner Neumann said that a school must decide if it is really necessary "to restrict religious freedom in order to keep the peace at the school".
The award-winning production of Green Day's musical American Idiot, which played on Broadway more than a year, is to tour the UK. The show will open in Southampton in October next year and tour across the UK and Ireland, before closing at London's Hammersmith Apollo. The production, which scooped two Tony Awards, features Green Day's music. "We can't wait for our friends across the pond to see the musical," frontman Billie Joe Armstrong said. The production features the hit songs Boulevard of Broken Dreams, 21 Guns, Wake Me Up When September Ends, and the title track, American Idiot, from the band's  Grammy Award-winning album. "We're excited to be bringing the US stage production of American Idiot to the UK and Ireland," said Armstrong. "We played to some of the most insane crowds when we toured the album there." The show's producers are hoping that the UK adaptation of the show will eventually transfer to the West End. In 2010, the Broadway show scooped the Tony Awards for best scenic design of a musical and best lighting design. It was also named the winner of the best musical show album at the Grammys earlier this year. The production opened at California's Berkeley Repertory Theatre in 2009, before moving to Broadway, where it remained for a year. Reviews were positive with Charles Isherwood, from The New York Times, calling the musical "thrilling" and The Stage's Mark Shenton describing it as "probably the most most compelling new musical of the Broadway season". Tickets for the UK tour are due to go on sale on 9 December.
Bahrain is recruiting a former police chief from the American city of Miami to help reform law enforcement, says the country's interior ministry. The move follows a highly critical report which found that the police in the Gulf state had used excessive force against anti-government protesters. More than 40 people were killed during the demonstrations in February and March this year. Officials say John Timoney will head a team of US and British advisers. King Hamad of Bahrain has promised to prevent further abuses by the security forces, following an independent inquiry on the violence which published its findings last month. The inquiry interviewed more than 5,000 people and documented illegal arrests, forced confessions, unfair trials and the systematic torture of detainees. The king expressed "dismay" at the findings and said the report opened a "new page" in Bahrain's history. On Tuesday the monarch replaced the head of the country's security agency. There will also be a new code of conduct for police dealing with demonstrations. John Timoney served as Miami police chief from 2003 to 2010. He has not yet commented on his new role. "Among his many accomplishments were the successful reduction of crime and the implementation of proper practices for the use of force," said a statement from Bahrain's government. However, Mr Timoney's force was criticised in the US for its handling of anti-globalisation protests during a meeting of leaders from the Free Trade Area of the Americas in Miami in 2003. Bahrain has been under pressure from the United States - which is a key ally - to improve its human rights record.
A public meeting to discuss proposals to cut 102 firefighters' jobs and close 10 fire stations in West Yorkshire revealed "overwhelming" opposition, the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) has said. The meeting, in Hemsworth, the site of one of the fire stations earmarked for closure, was attended by about 110 people. The FBU said people's lives would be "threatened" if the cuts went ahead. West Yorkshire Fire Service accepted local residents had "concerns". The fire authority in West Yorkshire has to save Â£18m in the next four years due to government funding cuts. The 10 fire stations earmarked for closure are Gipton, Stanks, Rawdon, Otley, Brighouse, Elland, Hemsworth, South Elmsall, Batley and Dewsbury. However, the fire authority also proposes to build five new stations based at "optimum sites". West Yorkshire Fire Service currently operates 48 fire stations across five districts. Mark Wilson, FBU brigade secretary for West Yorkshire, said the meeting had shown people "did not want these proposals". "The fact that over 100 people came here on a Friday night when they could have been doing something else is testament to the opposition to these proposals," he said. "Overwhelmingly, people opposed the scheme." Steve Rhodes, area manager for West Yorkshire Fire Service, said there had been "lots of debate". "The community has concerns. They understand the rationale, but don't support the change," he said. The meeting was part of a three-month consultation over the proposals which ends on 9 December. The results of the consultation will be presented to West Yorkshire Fire Authority at a meeting on 16 December where a final decision is expected to be made.
Scientists have developed a vaccine that protects mice against a deadly form of the Ebola virus. First identified in 1976, Ebola fever kills a majority of the people it infects. The researchers say that this is the first Ebola vaccine to remain viable long-term and can therefore be successfully stockpiled. The results are reported in the journal Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences. Ebola is transmitted via bodily fluids, and can become airborne. Sufferers experience nausea, vomiting, internal bleeding and organ failure before they die. Although few people contract Ebola each year, its effects are so swift and devastating that it is often feared that it could be used against humans in an act of terroism. All previously developed vaccines have relied on injecting intact, but crippled, viral particles into the body. Long-term storage tends to damage the virus, paralysing the vaccine's effectiveness. The new vaccine contains a synthetic viral protein, which prompts the immune system to better recognise the Ebola virus, and is much more stable when stored long-term. The vaccine protects 80% of the mice injected with the deadly strain, and survives being "dried down and frozen," said biotechnologist Charles Arntzen from Arizona State University who was involved in its development. He said the next step is to try the vaccine on a strain of Ebola that is closer to the one that infects humans.
A report in Saudi Arabia has warned that if Saudi women were given the right to drive, it would spell the end of virginity in the country. The report was prepared for Saudi Arabia's legislative assembly, the Shura Council, by a well-known conservative academic. Though there is no formal ban on women driving in Saudi Arabia, if they get behind the wheel, they can be arrested. Saudi women have mounted several campaigns to try to overturn the ban. Aside from the practical difficulties it creates, they say it is also illogical as in trying to keep them under family control and away from men, it actually puts them in daily contact with a male driver. The issue has received huge international attention. Some Saudi women feel it has attracted too much interest, obscuring other equally important issues. As part of his careful reform process, King Abdullah has allowed suggestions to surface that the ban might be reviewed. This has angered the conservative religious elite - a key power base for any Saudi ruler. Now, one of their number - well-known academic Kamal Subhi - has presented a new report to the country's legislative assembly, the Shura. The aim was to get it to drop plans to reconsider the ban. The report contains graphic warnings that letting women drive would increase prostitution, pornography, homosexuality and divorce. A Saudi woman who has campaigned for women drivers told the BBC that the report was completely mad. She said the head of the Shura had assured women campaigners that he was still open to hearing the case for lifting the ban.
Plans for 92 affordable homes on Wrexham's former Hightown flats site are to be considered by the council. The 41-year-old Hightown complex was demolished at the start of 2011 after surveys of the 181 homes in 2009 showed major repairs would be needed. The proposals for Kingsmill Road by Wales and West Housing would include a new community and medical centre. Wrexham council has allocated Â£5m of Welsh government social housing grants to support the project. Wales and West want to build a combination of 127 houses and apartments on the Kingsmill site and the neighbouring Rivulet Road, the site of a former gasworks. There is also a separate development of 20 apartments in a building on Rivulet Road. The planning application for the gasworks is being submitted later this week, and the standalone building conversion application will go forward for consideration in early 2012. If approved, work on the Kingsmill site could start early in the New Year. The housing association is holding an open day on Thursday 15 December from 15:00 to 20:00 GMT at Hightown Community Centre and is keen to encourage people to come along and see the plans. Over 100 people came along to a consultation event in the summer, according to the company. Chief executive Anne Hinchey said: "We are really excited about this development which will provide some very much needed high quality, affordable housing to Wrexham as well as a new community facility for the area."
Churches in Leicestershire are being given advice on how to prevent lead thefts by police at a one-day seminar. According to Leicestershire Police, between October 2010 and September 2011 there were 83 reports of lead being stolen from churches in the county. English Heritage, Crimestoppers and ecclesiastical insurance companies will be giving presentations on the day. The seminar is taking place at St Mary's Church in Melton Mowbray on Wednesday. Organiser PC Mick Kaiser from Leicestershire Police said: "The increase in incidents is the result of a number of things. "One is the high value of scrap metal, as much as £6,000 for a tonne of copper and £1,800 for a tonne of lead. "To tackle the problem we need to work in partnership with others... we need people living near churches to be our eyes and ears and we are setting up church watch schemes too." Hard-hit communities PC Kaiser said the cost of lead stolen from churches in England last year reached £26m. The Reverend Kevin Ashby, area dean, said: "Lead theft is financially crippling many congregations in both rural and urban parishes. "The pockets of chuchgoers and local communities are being hit very hard. "It's only a matter of time before some churches will have to close due to insufficient funding for repairs." The seminar will run from 13:00 to 16:00 GMT.
The illegal manufacture and sale of toxic alcohol in the western Indian state of Gujarat will now be punishable by death. The governor of the state, Kamala Beniwal, has given her assent to the new law after keeping it on hold for more than two years. Gujarat has witnessed many incidents of people dying after consuming poison alcohol. The government says the law will deter those involved in the illegal trade. Gujarat is the only state in India where alcohol is totally prohibited by law. The state legislative assembly passed the new stringent bill after scores of people died in one incident in 2009. But the governor refused to sign it into law. Correspondents say she wanted the provision of the death penalty to be dropped from the bill, but the state government did not agree. It was then referred to the central government for "legal opinion", and the governor gave her approval only after getting the nod from Delhi. The law will also allow the authorities to impound and auction vehicles used for transporting contraband. Illegal alcohol - commonly called desi daroo or country-made liquor in Gujarat - is usually sold in 200ml plastic pouches for 10 rupees (20 cents) each. The majority of the consumers are poor, daily wage workers. The pouches are transported into the state's main city, Ahmedabad, by couriers on motorcycles and scooters. Sometimes they slip into the state capital carrying jerry cans containing the alcohol. The alcohol is then sold from shantytown shacks which dot the city. Local residents and journalists allege that the police are on the take and collect "protection money" from the dealers. Gujarat's toxic liquor is usually spiked with methyl alcohol and industrial spirits which can lead to fits, vomiting and death.
Plans for a new business park near the Humber Bridge could create more than 3,000 jobs. The 50-acre "Bridgehead" development in Hessle, East Yorkshire, will be built on the site of a golf course. Once completed, the Â£100m complex will include 612,000 sq ft of offices, warehouse and manufacturing spaces. Developers said a planned fall in the bridge tolls along with road improvements on the nearby A164 would attract investors to the area. The business park is being developed by Hull-based firm Wykeland Group in partnership with The Humber Bridge Board and the Hessle Golf Course Company. Stephen Hudson, development director of Wykeland Group, said Bridgehead could eventually generate more than 3,000 jobs with another 150 or more being created during its development, where most of the contracts for the construction of the site would be awarded to local companies. He said: "We see Bridgehead as playing a key role in our region's economy especially as a support location to the growing renewable sector in the region. It will provide high-quality space to enable businesses to expand and at the same time attract major new investment from out of town. "We are already talking to several potential users who recognise the value of this location". Earlier this year developers received planning permission for the Â£100m business park and work on the construction of the site is expected to start in February. The golf course was cleared in the 1970s to make way for the construction of the Humber Bridge.
A convicted child killer and rapist has lost his legal challenge to the holding of an inquest into the death of a schoolgirl he was cleared of murdering. In September, Robert Howard was granted leave to seek a judicial review of the coroner's decision to examine the 1994 disappearance of Arlene Arkinson. His legal team claimed the move was an attempt to undermine the not guilty verdict returned against him in 2005. The body of Arlene, who was 15, has never been found. Howard's lawyers argued that the inquest is being used as a way of reopening issues surrounding the case because the Arkinson family were unhappy with the outcome of the criminal trial. On Monday, a High Court judge confirmed he had dismissed Howard's application for a judicial review. Mr Justice Treacy said he would issue a judgment setting out the reasons for his decision on Wednesday. Life sentence Arlene, from Castlederg, County Tyrone, vanished after attending a disco in Bundoran, County Donegal. Howard, 67, who formerly lived near her home, was charged with her murder but acquitted at trial. The jury did not know that by then he was already serving life for raping and killing 14-year-old Hanna Williams from Deptford, south London. Her body was found in a cement works in Northfleet, Kent, in March 2002. Howard's lawyers, who unsuccessfully tried to have reporting restrictions imposed on their judicial review application, pointed out that the coroner's stated purpose was to allow Arlene's death to be registered. It was argued that this could be achieved through an alternative, High Court procedure with the Presumption of Death Act 2009 coming into effect.
Driving Miss Daisy film-maker Bruce Beresford has signed up to direct a biopic about the American architect, Frank Lloyd Wright. According to the Hollywood Reporter, the film will focus on the scandal of Wright and his mistress, Martha 'Mamah' Cheney, who was murdered in 1914. Cheney, her two children and four others were killed by a domestic worker at Wright's home while he was away. "It's a very good script," Beresford said of Nicholas Meyer's screenplay. Meyer also directed two of the Star Trek movies. "There's a documentary by Ken Burns but it's odd that there's never been a film about him," Beresford told the Hollywood Reporter. The 1998 documentary was made by Oscar-winner Burns, who picked up an Academy Award for his film about the Statue of Liberty. Beresford is currently scouting for locations in and around Chicago. Casting is yet to be announced. Wright is considered by many to be one of the 20th Century's greatest architects. He designed over 1,000 buildings, 532 of which were completed. His Ennis House, designed in the style of a Mayan temple, was bought for $4.5m (£2.8m) earlier this year. Built in 1924, the house overlooks Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles and has featured in films including Blade Runner, House on Haunted Hill and Grand Canyon. Wright also designed the Guggenheim Museum in New York.
Legislation to stop people from smoking in cars carrying children will not be introduced during this assembly term, the Welsh government has decided. But Health Minister Lesley Griffiths confirmed a campaign will run about the effects of second-hand smoke in cars. An action plan to reduce the harm caused by smoking also includes moves to ban smoking on NHS premises and in children's playgrounds. David Bowden, from The Institute of Ideas, said any ban would not be right. Ms Griffiths rejected calls from Plaid Cymru to bring in rules sooner to make smoking in cars carrying children illegal. But the minister said the Welsh government will launch a three-year education campaign about the effects of second-hand smoke in cars. Ms Griffiths said the government will "consider bringing forward legislation," if evidence shows the campaign fails to achieve a significant reduction in exposure to second-hand smoke. David Bowden, from the civil liberties think-tank The Institute of Ideas, said most people were aware of the dangers of smoking. But he said it was not right for governments to decide to ban smoking in playgrounds and in cars. "We either give individuals the choice to make their own moral responsibility to have bad habits which the government may not approve of, or we don't at all," he told BBC Radio Wales. Professor Laurence Moore, a director at Decipher, a public health research centre of excellence at Cardiff University, said: "If the government can take firm action it can really help to encourage people not to take up smoking."
Plans to build 1,200 homes on the site of Deepcut Barracks in Surrey have gone on display. The Army is due to leave the barracks in 2013, when training facilities will be moved elsewhere. The exhibition is being held by Defence Infrastructure Organisation (DIO) as part of public consultation, Surrey Heath council said. Proposals for the 117-hectare site include housing, open space, access roads, a primary school and some shops. Opponents of the plan have questioned whether the infrastructure is adequate to cope with an influx of hundreds of new residents. Surrey Heath council said this consultation was being carried out by DIO, which is responsible for Ministry of Defence (MoD) property, but the local authority would run its own consultation after a formal planning application was submitted. The site is being released by the MoD following a national review of training that was prompted by the deaths of four soldiers in unclear circumstances at the Surrey army base. Privates Sean Benton, Cheryl James, Geoff Gray and James Collinson all died from gunshot wounds between 1995 and 2002. A coroner recorded a verdict of suicide for Pte Benton, but the inquests into the other three returned open verdicts. The exhibition was taking place on Wednesday at Deepcut Village Hall.
Actor Harry Morgan, best known for playing Colonel Sherman Potter in US TV show Mash, has died aged 96. The star died at his Los Angeles home after suffering from pneumonia, his family confirmed. Mike Farrell, who played BJ Hunnicutt in the military series, said of Morgan: "There was not an unadorable bone in the man's body." Morgan also appeared as Officer Bill Gannon opposite Jack Webb in TV crime serial Dragnet from 1967 to 1970. He appeared in more than 100 movies in mostly supporting roles from the early 1940s, playing opposite stars including Henry Fonda, John Wayne, James Garner, Elvis Presley and Dan Aykroyd. Morgan began his TV career in the 1950s when the medium was in its infancy in the US, which he said allowed him "to kick the Hollywood habit of typing an actor in certain roles". But it was his role as fatherly Col Potter in Mash, which he played from 1975 to 1983, that remains his best-remembered performance. In 1980 he won an Emmy award for his portrayal, which was set during the Korean War. During a news conference in 1983, after taping the final episode of Mash, the actor broke down in front of reporters. "I'm feeling very sad and sentimental. I don't know if Mash made me a better actor but I know it made me a better human being," he said. His co-star Mike Farrell added that Morgan was "an imp". "He was full of fun and he was smart as a whip," added the actor. Morgan's daughter-in-law, Beth Morgan, said he was "side-splittingly funny" and "very humble about having such a successful career". He is survived by three sons, eight grandchildren and his second wife, Barbara Bushman.
Aston Villa's on-loan midfielder Jermaine Jenas has been ruled out for six months after undergoing surgery on an Achilles injury. Jenas, who is on a season-long loan from Tottenham, was stretchered off during Saturday's loss to Manchester United after he pulled up sharply. The 28-year-old underwent surgery on his left Achilles tendon on Wednesday. Villa manager Alex McLeish said: "This is tragic for Jermaine and we are all deeply disappointed for him." McLeish added: "To lose a player of his talent and experience is bad enough, but never to have seen him play enough in the Villa shirt for our fans to appreciate the player he is, that's terrible bad luck." "Obviously, we wish Jermaine as speedy a recovery as possible and a full recovery, too. "He has been a great professional to have at the club since he arrived on loan in August." Jenas said on Twitter: "Back home after the surgery today. "All went as well as it can, thank you all so much for the kind messages. They mean a lot to me!" The midfielder has been dogged by injuries since he joined the Midlands club. Earlier Achilles and calf problems meant that Jenas did not make his debut for Villa until 5 November, when he came on as a second-half substitute against Norwich. Since then, he has made one more substitute appearance - against Swansea - and Saturday's game was his first start for the club. The Nottingham-born player has made 21 appearances for England. McLeish indicated after Saturday's game that he would be looking to strengthen his squad in January due to his growing injury list. First-choice goalkeeper Shay Given was also taken off during Saturday's game and will miss the next month with a hamstring injury.
Mission: Impossible star Tom Cruise has confirmed he is involved in the forthcoming Top Gun sequel. Plans for a follow-up to the hit 1986 film were announced last year, but it was not known if and how much the star would be involved. Speaking to MTV, Cruise said he was in talks with director Tony Scott and would go ahead provided they could "find a story that we all want to do". "I hope we can figure this out to do it again," he said. Scott directed Cruise in the first Top Gun film, which propelled him to fame as fighter pilot Maverick. The Jerry Bruckheimer-produced film, which also starred Kelly McGillis and Val Kilmer, was nominated for four Oscars and won the best song Academy Award for Take My Breath Away. Cruise said: "I said to Tony, I want to make another movie with him. He and I haven't made a film since Days Of Thunder." "Tony and I and Jerry, we never thought that we would do it again. Then they started to come to us with these ideas and I thought, wow, that would be what we could do now. "We all want to make a film that is in the same kind of tone as the other one and shoot it in the same way as we shot Top Gun," he added. It had been rumoured that Cruise's character would return in the sequel as an instructor for a new class of Top Gun recruits. But when asked what his role would be in a new film, the actor said: "I don't know - we're working on it." Cruise will next be seen on screen in a fourth Mission: Impossible film, Ghost Protocol.
A major pipeline carrying oil to a refinery in Syria's restive Homs province has been attacked, activists and the state news agency Sana said. It was not clear who was behind the attack, which caused no casualties but triggered a plume of black smoke. The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the pipeline was "bombed", while Sana blamed "an armed terrorist group" for sabotaging it. The agency said the attack happened at Tal al-Shor, west of the troubled city. The Local Co-ordination Committees, which organise protests against President Bashar al-Assad's regime, accused his government of deliberately destroying the pipeline, which serves a region opposed to his rule. The province has been besieged by security forces and loyalist militias for more than two months. The United Nations estimates more than 4,000 people have been killed since mid-March in the regime's crackdown on dissent. Damascus blames the unrest on "armed terrorist groups" and foreign meddling. Seven civilians were killed during several security raids in Homs on Thursday, according to activists quoted by AFP news agency. There have been two recent reported attacks on pipelines in Syria - one, according to activists, took place on 13 July in the eastern province of Deir Ezzor. Another, also near Homs, was reported on 29 July by Sana. Syria's oil output has slumped to 120,000 barrels per day from 340,000 before the unrest due to narrowing exports in line with sanctions against President Assad's regime, according to an industry expert quoted by AP.
Julian Fellowes is to write a new musical adaptation of Kenneth Grahame's novel The Wind in the Willows. The Downton Abbey creator will reunite with composer and lyricist duo George Stiles and Anthony Drewe for the project. The trio previously collaborated on Cameron Mackintosh's West End and Broadway production of Mary Poppins. The new show will be created for the West End, although dates and a theatre venue have yet to be announced. Fellowes said: "The Wind in the Willows is one of our greatest classics and as true and entertaining now as it has ever been. "I am delighted and tremendously flattered to have been asked to write the book [narrative] for the new musical. "In fact, I suspect this is something I've been wanting to do subconsciously for many years." Stiles added: "We all celebrate our English roots as writers and the musical possibilities of Kenneth Grahame's classic chime very strongly with me. "The book itself is packed with music and songs so I can't wait to find the sounds to score Ratty, Mole, Badger, Toad and their adventures." The musical will be produced by Jamie Hendry Productions, whose recent shows include Legally Blonde the Musical, Birdsong, Spring Awakening and La Cage Aux Folles.
Australia's High Court has lifted a ban on the sale of Samsung's Galaxy tablet in the country in time for the Christmas shopping season. Apple won a ban on the devices, claiming Samsung had copied its iPhone and iPad. South Korean Samsung had been unable to sell products in Australia since July. The two companies are engaged in legal battles in more than 10 countries since April accusing each other of infringing smartphone and tablet patents. Last month, Samsung won an appeal against a temporary ban on sales. However, Apple was awarded a stay of the orders. On Friday Apple's bid to extend the ban was turned down by the High Court. The ruling is a rare win for Samsung as it allows the company to sell its Galaxy Tab 10.1 in time for the busy Christmas shopping season, a lucrative time for the industry. The decision comes after a US court ruled against Apple's bid to ban Galaxy phones and tablets, another win for Samsung. Apple has appealed against that ruling. However, the legal tussle in other markets is not going as well for Samsung. The company said on Friday that a French court had turned down its request to ban sale of the latest iPhone in that country.
The British-built boat that co-starred with Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn in 1951 film The African Queen is to be restored and will sail again. Owner Jim Hendricks, referring to the boat's whistle, told the Key West Citizen it would mean "giving the Queen her voice back". Mr Hendricks' late father bought the Queen in 1982 for $65,000 (Â£41,300). The boat is in a state of disrepair after sitting in a dry dock next to the Key Largo Holiday Inn for 10 years. Mr Hendricks, who runs the hotel's gift shop, told the Citizen the boat had "several generations of engines built in England". "She was shipped to Africa and carried over land to Stanleyville where she worked on the Rukki River," he added. He said the boat, previously named the Livingstone, was acquired by director John Huston and Sam Spiegel in 1950 and renamed the African Queen. The wooden boat was originally built in 1912 for the British East Africa Railway Company, according to The Times newspaper. Huston's World War I film tells the story of American Rose Sayer - played by Hepburn - who escapes a village burned down in German East Africa on a boat owned by rough-and-ready Charlie Allnutt, played by Bogart. The pair then try to convert the African Queen into a torpedo boat. The film won Bogart the best actor Oscar in 1952. Much of the film was shot in the Belgian Congo, with some scenes filmed in England. After it is restored the boat will be used for cruises. "I'm looking forward to seeing people's reactions when that little steam engine starts up again and we hear that old 'ker-chunk, ker-chunk'," Mr Hendricks told The Times.
A lorry driver has been jailed for five years for causing the death of a woman while he was texting on a motorway. Jemma O'Sullivan, 22, died when she was involved in a four-vehicle collision on the northbound carriageway of the M18 in South Yorkshire in September 2010. Christopher Kane, 67, of Oakbank Close, Swinton, admitted causing death by dangerous driving when he appeared at Doncaster Crown Court. Jemma's father, Vincent, said words could not describe his grief. In a statement, he said: "The trauma and grief that this individual has put us through cannot be put into words. "Jemma's life was stolen from her and Jemma was stolen from us by this truck driver who had absolutely no regard for other road users. "This man has caused devastation to our family by texting while driving a heavy goods vehicle at 55mph on the M18, as we heard in court one text alone had one 117 strikes of the keyboard." Kane was also disqualified from driving for five years. Police said Miss O'Sullivan had been a front-seat passenger in a Citroen Berlingo which was in collision with a Mercedes lorry. This lorry collided with the back of a Scania lorry, which then overturned and slid into the back of a Vauxhall van. Miss O'Sullivan was born in Limerick in the Republic of Ireland and was about to start her final year as a pharmacy student at Sunderland University when she died.
The jury at an inquest into the killing of Daniel Hegarty by British soldiers in Londonderry in 1972 found the boy "posed no risk" when he was shot. The 15-year-old was shot during Operation Motorman on 31 July 1972. The operation was aimed at reclaiming "no go areas" in the city from the IRA. Daniel, who was a labourer, was shot twice in the head by a soldier close to his home in Creggan. His cousin Christopher, 16, was shot in the head by the same soldier but survived. On Friday, following a five day hearing, the jurors unanimously found that neither teenager posed a risk when they were shot. The jury also rejected the soldiers' claims that they had shouted warnings to the two teenagers before they were shot. They found that none of the soldiers present attempted to "approach the injured youths to either search them or provide medical assistance". This is the second inquest into Daniel's death. The initial inquest was held in 1973 and recorded an open verdict. A second inquest was ordered by the Attorney General in 2009 following an examination by the Historical Enquiries Team. The report found that the RUC investigation at the time was "hopelessly inadequate and dreadful". It also said Daniel "posed no threat whatsoever" when the soldiers opened fire. The inquest opened on Monday and heard from Daniel's sister Margaret Brady. She described how her mother continued to set a place for him at the table and call him for dinner for months after his death. In 2007, the British government apologised to the Hegarty family after describing Daniel as a terrorist. A Ministry of Defence document, assessing the Army's role in Northern Ireland, also incorrectly claimed the 15-year-old was armed.
Two men have been charged over a £1m email scam which took money from the bank accounts of hundreds of students. Police said students on government loans were sent phishing emails urging them to provide their banking details. Damola Olatunji, 26, of Hamsterley Avenue, Manchester, and Amos Mwangi, 25, of Rochdale Way, Deptford, London, face a charge of conspiracy to defraud. They were remanded in custody until 17 February by Westminster Magistrates' Court, central London. Their next appearance is due to be at Southwark Crown Court in south-east London. Mr Olatunji is also charged with possession of an article for use in fraud. Five other people arrested in the investigation have been bailed until March pending further inquiries. They are a 25-year-old woman arrested in Manchester, a 49-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man held in Stratford, north-east London. Two men, aged 38 and 35, were also detained in Bolton, Greater Manchester. They were all arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and money-laundering offences and bailed until March. The Metropolitan Police's e-crime unit was first alerted to the scam in August and worked with the Student Loans Company, the banking industry and internet service providers during its investigation. Phishing is the sending of a legitimate-looking email in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients.
More than 10,000 Latvians have withdrawn deposits from Swedish-owned Swedbank after rumours the firm was in financial difficulty. The run on the bank started on Sunday, because of rumours that the bank was facing liquidity and legal problems in Estonia and Sweden. The bank's chief executive in Latvia, Maris Mancinskis, has called the rumours "absurd". He said Latvians had so far withdrawn 10m lats ($19.2m; Â£12m) from the bank. The rumours, which were reportedly spread via social networks such as Twitter, come at a time of uncertainty in the country's banking system. Customers of Latvia's 10th largest bank, Latvijas Krajbanka, were left without access to their money for days after the bank was put into liquidation. Regulators found large-scale fraud at the lender after its parent company in Lithuania was taken over by the government. Swedbank said it was working to refill cash machines left empty by the withdrawals. The Swedish bank has deposits of 1.6 billion lats ($3.1bn Â£1.9bn) in the Baltic state. "These [withdrawals] won't impact our work in any way," Mr Mancinskis told LNT commercial television on Monday. Police have reportedly launched an investigation into the source of the rumours. Spreading false rumours which threaten the stability of the banking system is a criminal offence in Latvia, with a sentence of two years in jail.
A software development student hacked into Facebook with "considerable expertise", a court heard. Glenn Mangham, 26, admitted hacking into the social networking site between April and May, when he appeared at Southwark Crown Court. The action caused American authorities to fear an industrial espionage attack. Mangham, of Cornlands Road, York, had shown the search engine Yahoo how to improve its security and wanted to do it for Facebook, the court heard. Prosecutor Sandip Patel said the defendant's actions caused concern among a number of American authorities including the FBI. Mangham's actions were the "most effective and egregious example of hacking into social media that has come before a British court", he told the court. Mangham downloaded his own computer programmes on to Facebook's servers and saved "highly sensitive intellectual property" on to an external drive so he could work on it off line. "It required considerable expertise," said Mr Patel. In a statement to BBC News, Facebook said: "This attack did not involve an attempt to compromise or access user data." Facebook discovered the infiltration during a system check even though the defendant deleted his electronic footprint to cover his tracks, the prosecutor said. Mr Mangham's defence lawyer Tom Ventham said his client was an ethical hacker who had a "high moral stance" and Yahoo had "rewarded" him for pointing out its vulnerabilities previously. "That was his plan here but the activity was found by accident," said Mr Ventham. He added that when Mangham was arrested he made a "copious" admission to police about what he had done. Mangham will be sentenced on 17 February.
Legal moves are being taken to evict protesters who have been squatting as part of the Occupy movement in a former vegetarian restaurant in Bournemouth. The protesters moved into the Wessex Tales restaurant on 7 December. The restaurant closed earlier this year and has been on sale for six months. Its elderly owners, who live in an adjoining property at weekends, are now taking legal action to evict them. A court hearing is due to be heard on Thursday. The restaurant's owners, who are based in Hampshire and are both in their 70s, said they had been locked out of their weekend home because of the squatters. Kris Hall, the sales manager at Taylor Viscount which is handling the sale of the restaurant and its two adjourning properties, said the 77-year-old man, who has a heart condition and his 72-year-old wife had struggled to keep the restaurant open due to difficult economic circumstances. Mr Hall said that along with the Â£1,500 court costs, the couple would have to pay for the damage done to locks and cellar doors. He added that the couple had asked to remain anonymous. Mr Hall said: "I spoke to the gentleman who owns the building and he's concerned he's going to drop down dead from it. "I don't have a problem with people protesting, but why don't they squat in a bank?" Police were called to the property, on the corner of Ashley Road and Haviland Road, on Wednesday but said the situation was a "civil matter". However, on 8 December police arrested a woman in her 40s at the restaurant on suspicion of possessing controlled drugs. A number of people were also removed from the occupied building. The woman has been since released with a warning. No-one from Occupy Boscombe was available to comment.
The media environment in Taiwan is among the freest in Asia, and extremely competitive. There are hundreds of newspapers, all privately-owned and reflecting a wide range of views. Laws which prohibit the promotion of independence from China or communism are not generally enforced. Taiwan's major terrestrial TV networks tend to be politically partisan. The take-up of multichannel cable TV is very high. The switch to digital terrestrial TV was made in 2012. There are more than 170 radio stations, many of them with specific music formats. Phone-in programmes are particularly popular. The government has taken steps to end government, military and political party ownership of the broadcast media. There were more than 18.5 million internet users by 2013 (via InternetWorldStats). A digital convergence plan adopted by the government aims to integrate telecoms, the internet and broadcasting. United Daily News - Chinese-language China Times - Chinese-language daily The Liberty Times - Chinese-language daily The China Post - English-language daily Taipei Times - English-language daily Taiwan News - English-language daily China Television Company (CTV) - commercial Chinese Television System (CTS) Taiwan Television Enterprise (TTV) - commercial Formosa Television (FTV) - commercial Public Television Service (PTS) - non-profit public broadcaster Broadcasting Corporation of China (BCC) - national and regional networks CBS-Radio Taiwan International - national broadcaster; also beams services to mainland China and the rest of the world in various languages and Chinese dialects Public Radio System (PRS) - government-run; travel, weather, social information International Community Radio Taipei (ICRT) - English-language FM station Focus Taiwan - English-language service of state-run Central News Agency (CNA) Central Daily News - Chinese-language, Nationalist (Kuomintang)
Funding has been approved for transport improvements and a new park-and-ride between Cheltenham and Gloucester. The work will see a 1,000 space park-and-ride at Elmbridge Court, road capacity improvements on the A40 and more frequent bus services. However it does not include a railway station, which was originally looked at in 2005 but has since been dropped. The measures are part of £854m worth of government investment in 21 transport schemes across England. A spokesman for the Conservative-run Gloucestershire County Council said the work would make travel between the two destinations quicker and easier. "The Elmbridge scheme will greatly improve transport for cars, buses and cyclists by making congestion-busting improvements to the road. "It's simply about making things better at one of the busiest and most difficult junctions in the county. We're delighted that this scheme has been accepted and that we are in line to receive almost [£14.1m out of £16.5m] the entire cost of the scheme. "Costs over and above government funding would be met primarily from developer contributions," he added. In September, Gloucestershire County Council had submitted its "best and final bid" for the Elmbridge Transport Scheme to the Department for Transport (DfT). This was a revised version of plans originally put forward in March 2010. The current bid includes: It is hoped the work would be completed by 2015.
The 70th dean of Exeter cathedral in Devon has been appointed. Canon Jonathan Draper, who is currently Canon Theologian at York Minster, will succeed Jonathan Meyrick, in the position. Canon Draper said he hoped to make the cathedral more accessible to people in the city. He also said he supported the Occupy Exeter protest movement and wanted to be involved in its debates and discussions. Canon Draper was born in Boston in the US and studied at Durham University. He was ordained in 1983 and served in Manchester, Putney and York. He also worked as a lecturer in theology at the University of Oxford. Canon Draper said he was "very excited about coming to Exeter - to a beautiful cathedral, a vibrant city, and a county with many riches to explore". "I am also really pleased to be coming to a city with a Premiership rugby team and a county with such fantastic countryside to walk in." Canon Draper said he supported the Occupy Exeter protest movement which set up a tent community on Cathedral Green in mid-November. "I think they're taking the right approach, there's no need for confrontation or getting heavy handed. "The issues they raise are really important to us as a society and I think we need to take them seriously. "We also need to help them to find ways to move on and to make the protest and the debate they've generated a bit more fruitful. "It is my hope that the cathedral will continue to be able to offer spiritual sustenance and be a place where the great issues of our time can be thoughtfully and creatively addressed." Canon Draper is expected to be in position by Easter.
Italy and Libya will revive a suspended "friendship treaty", Italy's prime minister and Libya's transitional national council head have said. Mario Monti made the announcement after meeting Libya's Mustafa Abdul Jalil in Rome. The treaty was originally signed by ex-leader Col Muammar Gaddafi and former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi in 2008. Mr Monti also said Italy would continue to unfreeze Libyan holdings. Some 600m euros ($780m; Â£508m) in assets have already been released. Oil concessions Mr Jalil, who also met President Giorgio Napolitano, pledged to use the unfrozen funds to pay debts to Italian companies. Italian oil giant ENI, partially state-owned, had reached 70% of its pre-conflict output capacity in Libya, Mr Jalil said. Under the 2008 treaty, ENI is to pay 15bn euros to build a super highway crossing the north African desert coastline, linking Libya with its neighbours Tunisia and Egypt. In exchange, the oil firm secured important oil exploration concessions. It is not clear whether Rome's original pledge to pay Libya $5bn in compensation for its 30-year colonial rule will form part of the revived arrangement. The BBC's David Willey, in Rome, says that despite the public assurances of closeness, behind the scenes, there is some competition between Italy and France to secure Libyan oil contracts and other new business for reconstruction. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe paid a surprise lightning visit to Tripoli on Wednesday, pre-empting Mr Jalil's visit to Rome. Our correspondent says that his purpose, in part, was to remind the new Libyan administration that France also expects to be rewarded for its leading role in the Nato military operations which led to the downfall of Col Gaddafi. Italian newspapers report that Mr Monti is due to visit Tripoli next month.
President: Emomali Sharipovich Rakhmon (Rakhmonov) Emomali Rakhmon, a former cotton farm boss, was elected chairman of the Supreme Council of Tajikistan in 1992 after the country's first post-Soviet leader, Rahmon Nabiyev, was forced to resign. He was elected president in 1994 and re-elected in 1999 when his term was extended to seven years. In 2006 he won a third term in office in an election which international observers said was neither free nor fair. Opposition parties boycotted the vote, dismissing it as a Soviet-style staged attempt at democracy. In 2013 he gained a further seven-year term in elections. The only serious opposition candidate was prevented from running by the electoral commission which said she had not collected enough signatures to become a candidate. Mr Rakhmon was instrumental in the pro-Communist effort to remove Islamist rebels from Dushanbe in the early 1990s. He led troops from southern Kulob District and supported the intervention of forces from other former Soviet republics. After years of civil war and violence, some stability returned to Tajikistan. The president has a firm grip on power. His People's Democratic Party holds virtually all seats in parliament. Western observers said legislative elections in 2005 and 2010 failed to meet international standards. Mr Rakhmon does retain substantial public support. Tajikistan is still very poor, but many people are thankful they no longer have to face the civil war of the 1990s which killed tens of thousands and caused more than 10% of the population to flee the country. Mr Rakhmon was born in 1952. His surname was Rakhmonov until 2007 when he ordered his countrymen to drop Russian-style surnames, in a break with the nation's Soviet past. He removed the Russian suffix "-ov" from his surname.
About 500 homes in Jersey will be given access to fibre optic broadband at no cost as part of a trial of the new network. The States of Jersey invested Â£19m in JTs island-wide fibre optic network which it expects to be available to the whole island by 2016. The trial will start on 3 January at La Moye, La Rocque and Fauvic and will last for three months. The trial is open to customers of all telecom operators in Jersey. A JT spokesperson said it was a trial of the network and so JT, Sure and Newtel would be writing to their customers in that area offering them the chance to trial fibre optic broadband. JT say speeds will vary between 40Mbps and 1Gbps during the trial. People trying the service will be expected to give detailed feedback covering everything from installation to the experience of having faster broadband. JT said it would use the feedback to help shape the final product it offers to the public when the service is launched. The service will be available to all homes in the island by 2016, but the first homes will have access to the service by 2012, with most being switched to fibre optic broadband by 2013. Graeme Millar, chief executive of JT, said: "Clearly it takes time to replace the island-wide copper cable network, and we nee to do that in stages to minimise disruption and gain appropriate access to the 42,000 homes. " Mr Millar said the switchover to a fibre optic network enabling broadband speeds of up to 1Gbps would make it "the fastest for a residential network in the western world".
President: Islam Karimov Islam Karimov has dominated the leadership since 1989, when he rose to be Communist Party leader in then Soviet Uzbekistan. The following year he became president and continued in the post after independence. A referendum held in 1995 extended his term until 2000, when he won presidential elections unopposed. A further referendum in 2002 extended the presidential term from five to seven years, but the expiry of his term in January 2007 went largely unnoticed. He gained another two terms following elections in December 2007 and March 2015, both of which opponents dismissed as a sham. Mr Karimov takes a ruthlessly authoritarian approach to all forms of opposition, using the danger of Islamic militancy to justify the absence of civil rights. In recent years the question of the succession to President Karimov has been aired abroad, with his elder daughter Gulnara often highlighted as his potential heir. But an apparent power struggle in late 2013, coupled with several money-laundering investigations abroad, led to Ms Karimova being placed under house arrest. In 2014, prosecutors charged Ms Karimova - hitherto one of Uzbekistan's most powerful political and business figures - with belonging to a crime ring that had stolen Â£40m ($65m) in assets. Her fall from grace has been attributed to a falling out with her mother and sister, as well as a rivalry with the powerful head of the Uzbek security services, Rustem Inoyatov. Parliamentary elections were last held in December 2014. Parliament carries little political weight and is seen by critics as a rubber-stamp for the president. It meets only a few times a year to approve government policies. No genuine opposition operates in the country legally, and almost all opposition leaders are in exile.
The father of murdered schoolgirl Sarah Payne has been jailed for 16 months after admitting attacking his brother. Michael Payne, 43, struck his brother Stephen with a glass after they had both drunk a large amount of alcohol. Payne developed a drink problem after the murder of his eight-year-old daughter by Roy Whiting 11 years ago, Maidstone Crown Court heard. The attack happened after the brothers consumed about three litres of cider and a bottle of vodka each. The court heard the attack happened at Payne's brother's home on 24 August. Judge Jeremy Carey said he had the "deepest sympathy" for the loss of his daughter but the offence warranted a jail sentence. Payne, of Brishing Lane, Maidstone, who has previous convictions for common assault and criminal damage, will serve eight months behind bars and the remainder on licence. Defence counsel Oliver Saxby urged the judge not to follow a "formulaic exercise" when deciding sentencing because of Payne's "exceptional" background. "The assorted aftermath had a life-changing effect on him and his then wife and his family," he said. "It's desperately sad. He never sought nor was offered assistance with bereavement counselling." He added that Payne split from his wife Sara in 2003 and began drinking but was aiming to make a recovery from his addiction. Stephen Payne suffered injuries to his the back of his head, arm and hand but they were not life-threatening. He fled from his home to a nearby property where an ambulance was called. Mr Saxby said Stephen Payne had offered a retraction statement, which the judge described as a "merciful" act. Sarah was murdered by convicted sex offender Roy Whiting in West Sussex in 2000. The family was living in Surrey at the time.
The chief minister of the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu has expelled her close aide VK Sasikala, her husband M Natarajan and 10 others from her AIADMK party. J Jayalalitha announced the expulsions in a brief statement and told her party not to conduct any relations with the expelled members. Correspondents say the action against Ms Sasikala is drastic. She has enjoyed the absolute confidence of Ms Jayalalitha for many decades. VN Sudhakaran - Ms Sasikala's son - who is the chief minister's foster son, has also been expelled. Ms Sasikala, Mr Natarajan and their relatives, including TTV Dinakaran and VN Sudhakaran were "being expelled from all posts, including the party's primary membership," Press Trust of India quoted Ms Jayalalitha as saying. The action against Ms Sasikala has surprised many people in Tamil Nadu as she has been seen with Ms Jayalalitha in most of her private and public appearances. There has been no official reason for the expulsions. Ms Sasikala is also one of the accused in a corruption case against Ms Jayalalitha. Ms Jayalalitha is accused of amassing $13.6m (£8.5m) during her first term as chief minister between 1991 and 1996.  She denies the allegation. In what is known as a "disproportionate assets" case, prosecutors allege that this sum exceeds what she should have earned once all legally held assets and sources of income were taken into account. A former actress, Ms Jayalalitha is one of India's most colourful and controversial politicians.
Work has started on an extension to a nature reserve in Nottinghamshire to create a huge area of reedbed. The RSPB said the Â£200,000 project at Langford Lowfields, near Newark, will be home for rare wetland birds like the bittern and marsh harrier. More than 300,000 tonnes of earth is being removed at Langford Quarry and shaped into islands and pools. An RSPB spokesperson described the landscaping project as "breathtaking". Site partner Tarmac Ltd, which owns the quarry, is working on the restoration as well as extracting gravel, which they have been doing for 20 years. The new wetland area in construction is 50 hectares, roughly the size of 50 football pitches. The nature reserve is 175 hectares of which 100 hectares will be dedicated solely to reedbeds. Michael Copleston, RSPB Langford Lowfields site manager, said: "The major landscaping is a breathtaking change to the reserve. "The last few years of hard work is already paying off with critically rare species making Langford Lowfields home." New reed pools, channels and islands have been designed at the right depth and height for birds, animals and insects to feed and breed. Work started at the quarry site about 10 years ago when volunteers planted the reserve's first reeds. The bittern, one of the most threatened bird species in the UK, visited the site for the first time two years ago. Marsh harriers and avocets have both successfully raised fledglings over the last two years, said the RSPB. Langford Lowfields is already home to badgers, brown hares, wintering whooper swans, kingfishers and cuckoos. The funding has come from the SITA Trust, Biffaward and Tarmac Ltd.
Police are believed to be investigating five cases of alleged abuse at two hospitals, the BBC has learned. Two of the alleged cases happened in 1979. Details of the others are not clear yet. People who say they suffered abuse have come forward since a health service report in abuse at Lissue House and Forster Green was leaked to the Irish News in October. The Stinson Report contained allegations of abuse at the hospitals in the 1980s and 1990s. The report was completed in 2009 but was never published. It dealt with allegations that children suffered physical, emotional and sexual abuse. The review was instigated by the Belfast Trust and the Eastern Health Board after one former patient made a complaint to police. The Belfast Health Trust said it reported allegations to the Eastern Board and to the Department of Health. In October, Health Minister Edwin Poots told the assembly that there had been no cover-up into allegations of abuse at the two hospitals. Mr Poots said that the Stinson report indicated that the regime was harsh and and a small number of staff may have committed acts of abuse. He also said he was "extremely annoyed" that he was not given an interim briefing on the allegations at the hospitals. In relation to the two allegations of abuse in 1979, Belfast Trust said it was unable to comment on staff issues from that period as it did not manage Lissue Hospital at that time.
A police crackdown on rickshaw taxis in central London is being stepped up with a publicity campaign. The pedal-powered taxis do not need any licence but officers warn they are often unroadworthy and uninsured. Police claim the vehicles can also be ridden recklessly or cause obstructions. A total of 35 rickshaws have been impounded by officers. Almost 200 riders have been given a formal warning and 19 fined. The initiative which began in October, is now being stepped up with Mayor of London Boris Johnson launching a publicity campaign to warn people about getting into the vehicles. He said: "Unregulated rickshaw riders who block the streets and ride recklessly through the West End in unroadworthy vehicles pose a real danger both to passengers and to other road users. "We are sending out a clear message that this will not be tolerated and we are taking firm action to ensure we keep Londoners and visitors safe." Sgt Christian Ardron said: "This operation is all about tackling those riders who are flouting the rules and are a danger to themselves, their passengers and other road users. "In the run up to Christmas, the West End becomes increasingly busy and these operations have helped us remove problem pedicabs from the area, leaving it as safe as possible for the rest of the community and the other riders in the run up to the festive period."
Four paintings by the 17th Century Dutch master Johannes Vermeer have attracted record numbers of visitors to the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge. More than 130,000 people have seen the exhibition since it opened in October. It includes The Lacemaker, believed to be Vermeer's smallest work, that was loaned by The Louvre and is on display in the UK for the first time. The museum will extend its opening hours to cope with demand during the final two weeks of the exhibition. The popularity of the exhibition - Vermeer's Women: Secrets and Silence - is believed to be down to the inclusion of The Lacemaker. Curator Betsy Wiseman said: "The Louvre very rarely lend this painting because it's almost as important in their collection as the Mona Lisa. "It is a painting that people make a trip especially to the Louvre to see." The exhibition also includes A Lady At The Virginals With A Gentleman (The Music Lesson), on loan from The Royal Collection, and A Young Woman Seated At A Virginal, from the National Gallery, London. A private collector from New York loaned Young Woman Seated At A Virginal, to complete the Vermeer collection. The exhibition contrasts the artist's work with those of his contemporaries, including Gerrit Dou, Pieter de Hooch and Eglon Hendrik van der Neer. The museum said between 9,000 and 12,000 people had visited the exhibition each week since its opening. Director Dr Timothy Potts said: "This is the first time any exhibition at the Fitzwilliam has achieved over 100,000 visitors and there are still some weeks to go. "The critical and popular acclaim for Vermeer has been universal." Opening hours at the Fitzwilliam Museum will be extended from 3 January until the close of the exhibition on 15 January.
Ofcom has confirmed it will investigate Jeremy Clarkson's appearance on The One Show, in which he said that striking public sector workers should be shot. The media watchdog will look at whether the programme was in breach of its codes on generally accepted standards. The rule says broadcasters must ensure material that may cause offence is "justified by the context". About 31,000 people complained to the BBC over Clarkson's comments last month. Ofcom received 736 complaints. The Top Gear host said public sector workers should be "executed in front of their families". He prefaced the remarks, however, by saying he supported the strike, because it meant London was free of traffic. Adding that the BBC had to be balanced, he then made the execution comments, which led to the trade union Unison calling for him to be sacked. Clarkson later apologised, saying: "I didn't for a moment intend these remarks to be taken seriously - as I believe is clear if they're seen in context. "If the BBC and I have caused any offence, I'm quite happy to apologise for it alongside them." Unison accepted his apology and invited him to spend a day with a healthcare assistant. Ofcom said it would "make the outcome of the investigation known in due course". The BBC declined to comment on Ofcom's investigation.
A Gwynedd councillor has welcomed the Welsh government's decision to sell a former military air base in Snowdonia. It is hoped the transfer of the site at Llanbedr in Meirionnydd will be completed early in 2012. Purchaser Llanbedr Airfield Estates has previously welcomed the granting of a certificate to use the site to test unmanned aerial vehicles. Councillor Evie Morgan Jones, who represents Llanbedr, said the sale had been "a long time coming". Welcoming a decision by Business Minister Edwina Hart, Ms Morgan Jones said: "It has been a long time coming, and we hope now that the legal issues of transferring the site to the 125-year-long leasehold can move swiftly. "We are keen to attract new jobs to the area, ensuring that our young people remain in the area to live, work, settle down and raise children. "We have been assured by Llanbedr Airfield Estates that they are totally committed to the project and that their overriding principle remains the economic regeneration of the area and securing new jobs." The site at Llanbedr employed 130 people at the time it was closed in 2004. Llanbedr Airfield Estates (LAE) had wanted to use the land for private flights and let empty buildings for business use. Its 2009 application for a certificate of lawful use was refused by the Snowdonia National Park Authority as planning authority for the area. However, in December 2010, the Welsh government then applied, as ministers became the freeholders of the site in 2006 when they took over the old Welsh Development Agency. In August, the Welsh government was granted a certificate of lawful use, enabling the site to be used to test and develop unmanned aerial vehicles.
People are being reminded not to pour fat from cooking Christmas dinners down the sink as it blocks up sewer pipes. Thames Water said it was called out 101 times on Christmas Day 2010 to deal with blockages. It said fat should be put in a container and, once it has cooled down, disposed of in a bin. To highlight the problem a group of sewer men and women have posted on YouTube a rewritten version of the carol Deck the Halls Thames Water said 25% more fat - about 500 tonnes - goes down drains in December than at any other time. Rob Smith, Thames Water's chief sewer flusher and the Singing Sewermen's lead chorister, said: "Anything other than human waste and loo roll has no business in our sewers. "And fat is the biggest no-no of all. "Christmas time is the worst time of year for fat blocking our sewers because of all the turkey grease that gets washed away. "It goes down sinks easily enough when it's warm but when it hits our sewers it cools down and sets hard forming hideous fatbergs." This is the third year running that the Singing Sewermen have released a Christmas song, recorded in the sewers under the capital. In 2009 they sung a reworking of God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen and in 2010 they did their own version of Good King Wenceslas. The video for this year's song was filmed in a Victorian brick sewer under east London.
Alexei Navalny, a key figure in the rallies after Russia's disputed parliamentary elections, has left jail in Moscow promising new protests. After serving 15 days for obstructing police, the anti-corruption blogger was freed in the early hours. A few hours later, the first parliamentary session since the election began in the State Duma. Police say 25 people were arrested as they staged a rally outside the building, Russian media report. Speaking to reporters as he left prison, Mr Navalny said "extraordinary efforts" would be made to continue the protest movement. The protesters' demand for a re-run of the 4 December elections remained in force, he said. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's United Russia party won a narrow majority. But activists identified instances of ballot-stuffing and used social media to report them. Days after Mr Navalny was detained on 6 December, Moscow saw its biggest anti-government protest in decades. A new mass protest against ballot-rigging is planned on Saturday in Moscow. "I'm not afraid and these 15 days convinced me there is nothing to fear," Mr Navalny said. "Let them be afraid instead." Mr Putin is widely seen as favourite to win Russia's presidential election in March. "The party of swindlers and thieves is putting forward its chief swindler and its chief thief for the presidency," Mr Navalny added. "We must vote against him, struggle against him."
A roadside bomb has killed five Polish soldiers in a Nato convoy in eastern Afghanistan, Poland's heaviest single loss of life since the mission began. Polish media said the soldiers were a few miles from their base in Ghazni province when the bomb exploded. Three soldiers died at the scene. Another two were said to have died of their wounds at a military hospital. Poland has 2,500 troops in Afghanistan who are responsible for handling security in Ghazni. The soldiers were part of a provincial reconstruction team, according to Polish reports, who were in an all-terrain M-ATV vehicle. A witness in the Rawza area of Ghazni told AFP news agency that their vehicle had been completely destroyed. The soldiers had been part of a convoy of around 30 vehicles which was heading to the opening of a mausoleum, described by Polish media as one of the projects the reconstruction team had funded. The Taliban said it carried out the attack. In the nine years that Polish forces have taken part in the Nato-led mission in Afghanistan, 36 have been killed. But Wednesday's attack was the bloodiest they have suffered since their arrival in March 2002. Polish troops, in common with other Nato forces, are scheduled to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014. Although Nato did not reveal their nationality, it confirmed that "five International Security Assistance Force service members died following an improvised explosive device attack in eastern Afghanistan". So far this year, 532 people serving with the Nato-led forces have died.
Cambodia and Thailand have agreed to withdraw their troops from a disputed border area near the ancient temple of Preah Vihear. The deal was reached after Thai Defence Minister Yuthasak Sasiprapha met his Cambodian counterpart, Tea Banh, in Phnom Penh. A territorial dispute over a patch of land around the temple has sparked deadly clashes between the two nations. In April, fighting left 18 people dead and tens of thousands displaced. The International Court of Justice ordered both sides to remove troops from the disputed area in July - but neither has complied. According to a joint statement, both countries agreed to set up a working group on "redeployment of their military personnel completely and simultaneously from their current positions in the provisional demilitarised zone at the earliest". Q&A: Temple dispute The withdrawal will take place in the presence of Indonesian observers, the statement added, according to AFP news agency. Thailand does not dispute Cambodia's ownership of the World Heritage-listed temple, but both sides claim some of the surrounding area. Tension had been increasing between Cambodia and Thailand since Unesco awarded Preah Vihear World Heritage status in 2008. In April 2009, soldiers exchanged fire across the disputed border. More serious trouble flared in February 2011, when at least eight people were killed in several days of fighting. The violence moved westwards to another set of temples in April, before shifting back to Preah Vihear, as widespread clashes forced tens of thousands to flee.
A song released to raise money for a tribute statue to the late frontman of the Wurzels, Adge Cutler, has failed to sell a single copy. Tribute band, The Cornish Wurzells, released their song Drink Up Yer Scrumpy as an mp3 download in November. Keyboard player Terry Pascoe, who also played in the Wurzels in the 1980s, said no-one had bought a copy. The group wants to raise Â£40,000 for a statue to be erected in Mr Cutler's home town of Nailsea, North Somerset. "We've not had a single download from either iTunes or Amazon," said Mr Pascoe. "But we're not quitters, we'll let it run its course and review it in a year's time." He said the idea for a life-sized bronze statue may have to be abandoned if not enough money is raised. The Wurzels had hits with songs such as Combine Harvester and I Am A Cider Drinker in the 1970s. "Without Adge there would be no Combine Harvester or Cider Drinker," said Mr Pascoe. "He was a quality writer, there's alliteration in his songs - all the things you find in classic English language." Adge Cutler died in a car crash at the age of 42 in 1974.
The final 10 members of a drug-dealing network have been given jail sentences of up to eight years at Plymouth Crown Court. Drugs with an estimated street value of Â£1m and nearly Â£100,000 in cash were seized in the 18-month operation. A total of 30 people have been convicted in the investigation, codenamed Operation Greaves. Devon and Cornwall Police said the investigation had links to Plymouth, Cornwall, Manchester and Wales. Five people from Plymouth were jailed on Friday. Jon Palmer, 23, and his 67-year-old father Leslie Palmer, both of Mannamead Road, were sentenced to eight and three years in jail respectively. Dean Martin, 38, from Stonehouse, was jailed for eight years; while Peter Griffin, 33, from Southway, and Gemma Jefferis, 25, from Mount Gould, both received three year prison sentences. The court also sentenced four people from the Moston area of Manchester. Craig McCann, 25, from Jocelyn Street, was jailed for six years and six months; Daniel Agombar, 24, from Sedgeford Road, was jailed for five years; Tony Connolly, 50, from Portwood Walk, was sentenced to two years and six months; and Lee Briggs, 40, from Moston Lane, for two years. Blake Donnellan, 26, from Downs View, in Bude, Cornwall, who police have described as the "lynchpin" of the operation was jailed for 15 years earlier this year. On Friday he received an additional six years for other charges, to run concurrently.
A sequel to classic animated short The Snowman is to be produced by Channel 4 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the original's 1982 broadcast. The Snowman 2 - described as "a brand new adventure" featuring Raymond Briggs's character and "a new set of friends" - will air next Christmas. London-based animation company Lupus Films told The Guardian it would be "new and fresh [and] not identical". The original film was nominated for an Academy Award in 1983. "The Snowman is an entrancing animation that has stood the test of time," said Jay Hunt, Channel 4's chief creative officer. "I'm thrilled that Raymond will be giving us this sequel which I'm sure will be as delightful and unforgettable as the original." Briggs will not be writing the script himself, which will be penned by two of the animators who worked on the first film. But a Channel 4 spokeswoman said the pair were "close to Raymond and consulted with him throughout development". "He has an official role as consultant on the film and will be fully involved with all stages of the creative process," she told the BBC News website. The new version will reportedly not include Walking in the Air, the haunting song used to accompany scenes of the Snowman, and the boy who made him, flying over England. It is also said to involve a new boy, a "snow dog" and such modern landmarks as the London Eye.
Barbara Hepworth's granddaughter has increased a reward to £5,000 to find the sculpter's bronze artwork which was stolen from a south London park. Dr Sophie Bowness said she hoped the money would help in the search for Two Forms (Divided Circle) sculpture. The piece, insured for £500,000, had been in Dulwich Park since 1970. It was found cut from its plinth on Monday. Southwark Council had offered a reward of £1,000. It is thought the artwork was stolen by scrap metal thieves. Councillors have since urged the government to pass legislation to crack down on scrap metal theft. Dr Bowness, a trustee of Barbara Hepworth's estate, said: "In support of Southwark Council's efforts to recover Barbara Hepworth's Two Forms (Divided Circle), the Hepworth Estate have offered to increase the reward for information to £5,000. "This is a much-loved and irreplaceable bronze, and its position in Dulwich Park is one that Barbara herself particularly admired when she saw it in 1970." A life-size bronze statue of former MP and social reformer Alfred Salter was also stolen from Southwark some time ago. Southwark Council is carrying out a risk assessment of 165 pieces of public art and sculpture in its area and is also considering temporarily removing valuable pieces or installing CCTV to monitor them. The leaders of the Labour, Conservative and Liberal Democrat groups on the council have written to Prime Minister David Cameron asking him to bring in "tough" new laws. In a statement, they said: "We believe there should be much tougher regulation of the industry including a ban on cash payments to sellers and a requirement that dealers keep a log of sellers' details."
The Japanese word "kizuna", meaning bonds or connections between people, has been chosen as Japan's kanji of 2011. The kanji, or Chinese pictorial script, for "kizuna" emerged top of a public poll for the character that best summed up the year. For Japan, 2011 was dominated by the earthquake and tsunami in March. The disasters led to unprecedented numbers of Japanese helping one another. After the tsunami smashed into Japan's north-east coast on 11 March, killing thousands and engulfing entire communities, people's stoicism and their determination to pull together won international praise. In April the then prime minister Naoto Kan thanked the world for its help in a letter entitled "Kizuna - the Bonds of Friendship". And when Japan unexpectedly beat the United States to win the women's football World Cup, "kizuna" forged by the players' teamwork was cited with pride. Half a million people took part in the annual poll for the kanji character, conducted by Japan's Kanji Aptitude Testing Foundation. About 60,000 people nominated "kizuna", but the runner-up was much less optimistic: "wazawai" means disaster. For some Japanese, 2011 brought the opposite of "kizuna". A firm that specialised in divorce ceremonies said in July that they had tripled since the tsunami as people reassessed their lives.
Rowdy scenes have broken out at stores across the US as shoppers jostled to lay their hands on Nike's new shoe. There was disorder from California to Georgia as shoppers vied to buy a retro version of a classic Air Jordan model. A new pair costs about $180 (??115), but they are already being listed on eBay for as much as $605. The ugly scenes recalled the violence that broke out in the early 1990s on streets across America as the shoes became popular targets for thieves. In the early hours of Friday, police used pepper spray on about 20 customers who started fighting at a mall in suburban Seattle, Washington state, as they queued to buy the black-and-white Air Jordan 11 Retro Concords. One man was arrested for allegedly punching a police officer. "He did not get his shoes. He went to jail," Officer Mike Murphy said. He added: "It was not a nice, orderly group of shoppers. There were a lot of hostile and disorderly people." In other disturbances: A spokesperson for Nike was not immediately available to comment. The original Air Jordan created a subculture of collectors who rarely wore the sneaker but were willing to wait hours to buy the latest pair.
A Royal Air Force serviceman who was injured in an explosion in Afghanistan has died at a UK hospital, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said. He was flown to the UK after being wounded when his vehicle was caught in a blast south of Kabul on Thursday. He died of his wounds at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, on Friday and next of kin were informed. The number of UK personnel killed in Afghanistan since military operations there began in 2001 stands at 393. Meanwhile, the head of the British Army - Gen Sir Peter Wall - has paid a pre-Christmas visit to UK forces in Afghanistan to thank them for their work. He met servicemen and women at Camp Bastion in Helmand province. Of the RAF serviceman, the MoD said it confirmed his death with "great sadness". The explosion which caused his injuries is the same one that claimed the life of a Royal Marine on Thursday. It has also emerged that a helicopter carrying UK troops made an emergency landing after coming under fire on Friday. The Nato-led International Security Assistance Force (Isaf) said the forced landing, which occurred safely and without incident, took place in Nahr-e Saraj district, southern Helmand Province. Isaf said the aircrew were recovered unharmed. Earlier this week, Prime Minister David Cameron indicated he was planning a phased withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. Some 500 are due to be pulled out next year, with more expected to follow in 2013.
Chilean newspaper La Tercera has been ordered to compensate 13 readers who suffered injuries when they followed a recipe it published. The recipe for churros - sweet fried snacks similar to doughnuts - caused explosions that showered the cooks with hot oil, causing burns. Chile's supreme court found that injury had been inevitable for anyone who followed the printed recipe. It ordered La Tercera to pay more than $163,000 (Â£104,000) to the victims. The individual damages range from $279 to $48,000 to a woman whose burns were particularly severe. The judgement comes seven years after readers were burned on the arms, body and face while trying out the recipe. The court said the oil temperature mentioned in the recipe was too high, making an explosion likely when the mixture was put in the pan. "The explosions were so violent that in some cases the splashes hit the ceiling and covered the person who was cooking," the court said. "Faithfully following the recipe published in the newspaper, this damage could not have been avoided," it added. The company which owns La Tercera has said it will respect the judgement, which upholds decisions by two previous courts. Dusted in sugar or dipped in chocolate, churros are a popular treat in Spain and across Latin America.
Oscar-winning 1991 thriller The Silence of the Lambs is to be preserved by the US Library of Congress as part of its National Film Registry. The film - in which Sir Anthony Hopkins made his first appearance as serial killer Hannibal Lecter - was one of 25 new additions announced. Others include Forrest Gump, starring Tom Hanks, classic Disney animation Bambi and Charlie Chaplin's The Kid. The titles were chosen from 2,228 films nominated by the public. Every new addition must be considered "culturally, historically or aesthetically" significant in order to be added to the registry. Other additions include the 1979 Sally Field film Norma Rae, Robert Rodriguez's 1992 debut feature El Mariachi and the 1953 version of War of the Worlds. They are joined by such lesser-known titles as A Computer Animated Hand - a one-minute film made in 1972 that is one of the earliest examples of 3D computer animation. The oldest entries are silent films dating from 1912. One documents the pre-World War I child labour reform movement, while the other is a farce starring comic actor John Bunny. Gump, which in 1995 won Hanks his second Oscar for best actor, is the most recent of the new additions. "These films are selected because of their enduring significance to American culture," said James H Billington, who has been the US Congress librarian since 1987. "Our film heritage must be protected because these cinematic treasures document our history and culture and reflect our hopes and dreams."
British singer Peter Frampton has sued the Universal Music Group for unpaid digital royalties, according to US reports. Nashville newspaper The Tennessean said the star has filed legal papers at a Los Angeles federal court, accusing the record company of "breach of contract". He argues that he should receive a higher royalty rate for digital downloads than for physical copies. A lawyer for Universal Music Group could not be reached for comment. In the past, record labels have argued that online sales should be treated the same as physical album sales. But artists say that, because online music does not incur packaging and shipping costs that are usually paid for by the record company, they should be entitled to larger royalty percentages. Frampton is seeking damages and has hired music lawyer Richard Busch, who has represented Eminem and The Knack's Bruce Gary in similar court cases. "The issues in these cases go beyond simply breach of contract," Mr Busch told the Tennessean. "The plaintiffs allege the wrongdoing here is a part of deliberate effort to deprive the parties of their royalties." Mr Frampton, first signed with A&M Records, a division of Universal Music Group, in 1971. He went on to record rock classics such as Show Me the Way and Baby, I Love Your Way. His 1976 album Frampton Comes Alive! is still one of the best-selling live albums in the US. The newspaper said the star signed a new contract in 1998, which stated that any "licensed" music would give the singer a 50% royalty. But the lawsuit has claimed the company paid less than the agreed percentage and it "systematically and knowingly" breached its contract with Mr Frampton.
A fire has broken out during repairs to a Russian nuclear submarine at a dock near the northern port of Murmansk. The Russian Emergency Ministry said there had been no leak of radiation, and nobody was  injured. The Yekaterinburg submarine was being repaired when wooden structures in the dock caught fire and the flames spread to the vessel, say Russian media. Eleven fire crews and a navy launch fought the blaze, which has now been put out. Local media reports said a helicopter was also used. The Russian defence ministry said the nuclear reactors on the vessel were already shut down when the fire broke out. All weapons had also been removed from the submarine before it entered the dock, the ministry said. As a huge plume of smoke billowed into the sky a Russian defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, insisted there was no major risk from the fire. "The power unit was switched off and is now safe," he told Russian state television. "The fire cannot spread into the sub. There is no threat to onboard technical equipment." Russian news agencies later said the submarine had been partially submerged in the dock to help extinguish the blaze. The Yekaterinburg is a Delta-IV-class nuclear submarine. It was commissioned by the Soviet Union in 1985 and can carry 16 intercontinental ballistic missiles. Safety on Russian navy submarines is a sensitive issue for the military following the Kursk disaster in August 2000. The Kursk nuclear submarine sank in the Barents Sea off north-west Russia, killing all 118 seamen on board. Investigators concluded that an explosion of fuel from one of its torpedoes caused the sinking.
Former Test cricket umpire Dickie Bird has been appointed OBE for services to the sport and to charity. Mr Bird, 78, from Barnsley, was regarded as one of the game's most popular and consistent umpires. A guard of honour by the players and a standing ovation from the crowd marked his final Test, between England and India, at Lord's in 1996. After retiring in 1998, he set up the Dickie Bird Foundation which gives grants to under-privileged children. Speaking about the award, Mr Bird told the BBC: "It came as quite a surprise... but I'm tremendously delighted and honoured to get this great honour, this OBE. "It's a marvellous and wonderful honour and I never expected it, really. "It came out of the blue, because I got the MBE in 1986 which is a long time ago, and so when this came along I was completely stunned, shocked." Talking about his foundation, Mr Bird said: "It's for under-privileged kids, who the mothers and parents can't afford to buy them sports equipment... and if we think they are a worthy cause then we send them a grant. "And my aim is to get them off street corners, away from television, doing exercises and giving them a start in life." Other people honoured in South Yorkshire include the county force's recently-retired chief constable, Med Hughes, who has been appointed CBE for his services to the police. World taekwondo champion Sarah Stevenson, from Doncaster, becomes an MBE for her services to martial arts. And Christine Manby has been appointed OBE for her work with South Yorkshire's Women's Royal Voluntary Service.
An Office of Fair Trading (OFT) ruling has cleared the way for Scottish food group Baxters to complete its acquisition of household brand Fray Bentos from Princes Limited. Princes agreed to sell the brand last month to address competition concerns raised by its merger with the canning business of Premier Foods. The OFT found Baxters was a "suitable purchaser" of the business. It said the Princes merger would not be referred to the Competition Commission. The Moray-based firm bought the business and brand for an undisclosed sum in November. The OFT said it had carefully assessed and consulted publicly on Princes' undertakings, as well as on the suitability of Baxters as a purchaser. OFT chief economist Amelia Fletcher said: "This merger would have led to a near-monopoly in the provision of canned pies in the UK. "However, the sale of the Fray Bentos brand to Baxters will restore pre-merger levels of competition for the benefit of consumers. "The OFT believes that Baxters, with its extensive experience in the sector, is a suitable purchaser for the business." Manufacturing of Fray Bentos products will transfer over the next year from Long Sutton in East Anglia to Baxters' production facility in Fochabers. Fray Bentos, which was launched in 1899, is best known for its range of canned meat pies, including steak and kidney and minced beef and onion. Baxters produces a range of premium food products, including soups, savoury sauces, sour pickles, sweet sauces, preserves and salad accompaniments.
A Swedish woman has discovered her wedding ring on a carrot growing in her garden, 16 years after she lost it, says a newspaper. Lena Paahlsson had long ago lost hope of finding the ring, which she designed herself, reports Dagens Nyheter. The white-gold band, set with seven small diamonds, went missing in her kitchen in 1995, she told the paper. Although the ring no longer fits, she hopes to have it enlarged so she can wear it again. Mrs Paahlsson and her family live on a farm near Mora in central Sweden. She took the ring off to do some Christmas baking with her daughters, but it disappeared from the work surface where it had been left, she explained to Dagens Nyheter. The family searched everywhere and years later took up the tiling on the floor during renovations, in the hope of finding the ring. It was not until 16 years later when Mrs Paahlsson was pulling up carrots in her garden that she noticed one with the gold band fastened tightly around it. "The carrot was sprouting in the middle of the ring. It is quite incredible," her husband Ola said to the newspaper. The couple believe the ring fell into a sink back in 1995 and was lost in vegetable peelings that were turned into compost or fed to their sheep. "I had given up hope," Mrs Paahlsson told Dagens Nyheter, adding that she wanted to have the ring adjusted to fit her. "Now that I have found the ring again I want to be able to use it," she said.
Police in Bahrain have used tear gas to break up demonstrations following the funeral of a 15-year-old protester. The opposition says the teenager was killed when he was struck on the head by a tear-gas canister on Saturday. State media say he suffered burns after taking part in a petrol bomb attack against security forces. There have been frequent clashes in recent months between police and protesters, amid widespread anger at the ruling Sunnis among majority Shias. An investigation is under way into the death of the teenager, Sayid Hashim Saeed. On Sunday a resident in the mainly Shia village of Sitra, south of the capital Manama, told Reuters news agency: "After the funeral, many of the mourners started protesting and the police began using tear gas." State news agency BNA quoted a police official as saying preliminary investigations suggest "the deceased was among those who took part in attacks on security forces by throwing petrol bombs". A wave of demonstrations in February and March last year led to a crackdown in which more than 40 people died. In November, an independent commission concluded "excessive force" had been used, and that security forces had been guilty of systematic abuse and torture. More than 1,600 people have been arrested during the protests this year in Bahrain, which have continued sporadically since the peak of the unrest eight months ago.
Andrew Hore says the Ospreys will consider finding a successor for director of coaching Scott Johnson, who leaves for Scotland in June. The region's chief operating officer says the claims of head coach Sean Holley and forwards coach Jonathan Humphreys will also be assessed. New Zealander Hore, a former Wales fitness coach, said: "We definitely will be looking at both scenarios." Johnson will become Scotland boss Andy Robinson's senior assistant coach. Hore said: "We've been talking for a long period of time about where to go from here, that kind of thing. "What we want to do now is sit down and look at the blueprint. "We started this exercise four years ago to bring him [Johnson] in to help develop those coaches and that coaching staff and put those systems in place. Are we happy with where we're at? "And we've just got to review that now and make a decision on whether we bring somebody else in, that maybe the process needs to be finished. "Or, are we happy with where we're at and go with from within, as we said? "And then it's who, from within, is going to head that up?" Hore admits the festive period has made it difficult for the Osprey's power brokers, such as joint managing directors Roger Blyth and Mike Cuddy, to meet to discuss the issue. "With some directors being away, obviously with the festive period and that, we just haven't had a chance to sit down because it [the news about Johnson leaving] came out a little bit earlier than we expected," Hore added. "So yeah, we've got a bit of work to do yet." The Ospreys stopped a run of three defeats with a 17-12 win over Welsh rivals Cardiff Blues on New Year's Day at the Liberty Stadium.
Officials in Colombia say the alleged leader of a powerful criminal gang has been killed in a police operation. Prosecutors accuse Juan de Dios Usuga and his brother Dairo Antonio of jointly leading the Urabenos gang, which controls much of the drug-trafficking in the north of Colombia. Police say Juan de Dios Usuga, 44, was shot dead as officers tried to arrest him at his ranch in Choco province. A police officer was killed in the 30-minute firefight. The security forces continue to search for Dairo Antonio Usuga. 'Inside information' Police said an informant told them Juan de Dios Usuga would be celebrating New Year's Eve at his ranch in Casa Verde, in north-western Choco province. They deployed a special operations team to the area, which moved in on the ranch in the early hours of Sunday morning, local time. The security forces said Mr Usuga and his bodyguards opened fire and shot a policeman as he was jumping off the helicopter. They said Mr Usuga was killed in the exchange of fire which followed. Three suspected gang members were injured and arrested. Ten warrants had been issued for Mr Usuga's arrest for alleged crimes including murder, forced disappearance and forced displacement. Prosecutors say the two Usuga brothers control a 500-strong criminal gang named Los Urabenos after the area in northern Colombia where they have their roots. Dairo Antonio is believed to have been at the ranch as well, but managed to escape from the police. Los Urabenos is one of the groups the Colombian government calls Bacrim, short for bandas criminales (criminal gangs). President Juan Manuel Santos says the gangs pose a grave danger to the security of Colombia and has made the fight against the Bacrim one of his government's priorities.
US President Barack Obama has joined photo-sharing social network Instagram. The first picture, posted by his campaign staff, shows the President video-conferencing with supporters at the Iowa caucus. The service, which allows users to apply special effects to pictures, has over 50 million users worldwide. Social networking is expected to play a major role in efforts to build voter loyalty in the upcoming US Presidential Elections. Prior to being elected in 2008, President Obama used Twitter to rally support and raise money for his campaign. He quickly became one of the service's most followed users. Ahead of this year's election, all of the Republican candidates have established a presence on Twitter - with Newt Gingrich proving the most popular of the presidential hopefuls with over 1.3 million followers. President Obama's Twitter account is mostly maintained by his campaign team, although posts signed off with 'BO' are said to be posted by the President himself. As a notable Blackberry user, it is unclear whether the President will upload pictures that he has taken himself as the app is currently only available on the iPhone. Instagram, which Apple named "app of the year" in 2011, said it was delighted to have the President using its service. "We look forward to seeing how President Obama uses Instagram to give folks a visual sense of what happens in the everyday life of the President of the United States," it saidin a blog post.
The current US president is Barack Obama, who was elected in November 2008 and officially took over the role in January 2009. He is the 44th president of the US and his election made history as he is the country's first black president. Barack Obama is a member of the Democratic Party - it's a bit like America's version of the Labour Party. The president before him was George W. Bush who held office for eight years. He was a member of the Republican Party. Barack Obama was born on 4 August 1961 in Hawaii, to an American mum and a Kenyan dad. He spent his early childhood in Indonesia, in south east Asia. But when he was 10 years old he moved back to Hawaii and was brought up mainly by his grandparents. President Obama is married to Michelle and has two daughters, Sasha and Malia. After university, Barack Obama worked in community projects, before going on to law school. He then was a civil rights lawyer and later went on to work for the local government of Illinois, a state in America. In 2004, Barack Obama was elected to the US Senate - part of America's law-making system. He won the presidential election in 2008, beating Republican Senator John McCain, in part due to his appeal to younger voters looking for a change after eight years of Republican President Bush in charge. In 2012, President Barack Obama was re-elected for a second term as president of the United States, beating his rival, Republican Mitt Romney.
The former Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, has been charged with taking bribes in a property scandal. The allegations relate to Mr Olmert's time as Jerusalem mayor in the 1990s. Mr Olmert, who resigned as prime minister in 2009, has already been charged in three unrelated corruption cases. He denies any wrongdoing. The latest charges concern the construction of a luxury residential complex in Jerusalem called Holyland which is built on a prominent hilltop. Prosecutors claim that millions of dollars changed hands illegally to facilitate a series of property deals. Jerusalem's planning laws were altered to enable the complex to be built. The project's developers have also been charged in the case. Haaretz newspaper describes the case as one of the largest corruption scandals in Israel's history. The former prime minister denies any wrongdoing and has called the investigation a "witch hunt". Mr Olmert was mayor of Jerusalem from 1993 - 2003, then became a minister in the Israeli cabinet. He took over as prime minister in 2006 after Ariel Sharon suffered a stroke. His three-year premiership was dogged by corruption allegations, and he eventually agreed to stand down. Mr Olmert has pleaded not guilty in the separate proceedings against him, in which he is accused of taking cash for favours and double-billing for overseas trips.
The owner of a French breast implant maker at the centre of safety fears told police he had "nothing" to say to women facing surgery for their removal. France banned implants made by Poly Implant Prothese (PIP) with industrial silicone in 2010, and some 30,000 women were advised to have them removed. But founder Jean-Claude Mas told police at the time that victims had only filed complaints "to make money". The UK is set to reveal its updated advice to 40,000 affected women later. The BBC's Christian Fraser, in Paris, said Mr Mas had shown no empathy with those left with an unenviable choice. PIP had used low-grade industrial silicone gel, that had been manufactured for use in mattresses, in place of specialist medical materials. Excerpts from Mr Mas's interview are being re-examined by a French magistrate. The interview reveals PIP had deceived European safety inspectors "without a problem" for 13 years by ordering employees to hide the unauthorised silicone when they visited its factory. Concerns about the safety of the firm's implants were raised when French surgeons noticed they ruptured more easily than others. The French government has since quoted a rupture rate of 5%. UK ministers have previously said the risk is much lower - with authorities putting the rate in line with other implants at 1%. However, they ordered a review after reports suggested from one cosmetic surgery group, Transform, suggested it could be as high as 7%.
The FBI has updated its definition of rape for the first time in 83 years, to include men and those who do not physically resist as victims. The new definition will increase the number of people counted as rape victims in FBI statistics, but it will not change federal or state laws. Lawmakers use those statistics to allocate resources for prevention and victim assistance. Many US states have already adopted a wider definition of rape. Previously, the FBI defined the crime of rape as "the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will". The new definition removes the reference to females and says rape is "the penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object" without the consent of the victim. Also specified is "oral penetration by a sex organ of another person" without consent. Vice-President Joe Biden, who raised the issue last July at a Cabinet meeting, called the change a victory for those "whose suffering has gone unaccounted for over 80 years". "We can't solve it unless we know the full extent of it," Mr Biden said. One in five women and one in 71 men have been raped at some point in the lives, according to a 2010 study by the Centers for Disease Control, which used a broader definition. The US Congress approved $592m (Â£384m) this year to address violence against women.
Former Mexican international footballer Omar "El Gato" Ortiz has been arrested for allegedly participating in a kidnapping ring, police have announced. The goalkeeper is accused of working with a gang operating in Nuevo Leon state responsible for more than 20 abductions, a security spokesman said. Jorge Domene said 35-year-old Mr Ortiz had admitted helping to select wealthy victims for the group. Mr Ortiz was suspended from playing in 2010 after failing a steroids test. Earlier, his relatives said they feared he had been kidnapped as they had not heard from him since Wednesday. Mr Ortiz, whose nickname means "the cat", was presented to the media along with other suspects on Saturday evening. Officials in Monterrey accused him of being involved in kidnappings in the second half of 2011, with the group allegedly demanding a ransom of around one million pesos ($72,000; Â£46,000) per victim. Mr Domene said the victims appeared to have targeted businessmen and "because of that in general they sought large ransoms". He said the group confessed to making "upward of 20m pesos ($1.45m)". The gang's victims allegedly included the husband of singer Gloria Trevi, who was reportedly quickly freed after his abduction in October. Mr Domene said Mr Ortiz, who was playing for top division team Rayados de Monterrey when he was suspended in April 2010, had confessed to knowing the gang for more than a year and becoming an accomplice "by signalling the victims who were kidnapped". "In exchange for that, he received significant payments for his active participation," Mr Domene said. "He has confessed to doing this at least twice, in which he received amounts surpassing 100,000 pesos ($7,260)." If convicted, Mr Ortiz could face a jail sentence of up to 50 years.
Celebrities have taken to Twitter to help trace a pedigree pug dog stolen in a burglary in north London. Three-year-old Molly was taken from the home in Stapleton Hall Road, Crouch End, at about 13:00 GMT on Friday. Since then, presenter Jonathan Ross, actress Joanna Page and model Bianca Jagger have joined Twitter users appealing for help for her return. Molly's owner Catriona Fox, 27, said: "She means the world to us. We're completely desperate to get her home." Ross tweeted in return: "So sorry to hear that! You poor things." Gavin and Stacey actress Page tweeted: "Anyone who lives in N4 area of London please look out for my friend's dog. Molly was stolen yesterday." Bianca Jagger, who is also a human rights campaigner, and actress Sheridan Smith also tweeted appeals to find Molly. Ms Fox said she and her boyfriend Justin Leibenburg had put up posters and handed out 200 leaflets in the area. "She's like our child. Someone saw two young men carrying her out," Ms Fox said. "Molly has a very sensitive stomach so if she is given the wrong food, she starts to vomit. "They were either intending to steal her or it was opportunistic." The Metropolitan Police said several other items were also stolen in the burglary and investigations were continuing. No arrests have yet been made.
Two chickens were tortured and killed after being stolen from a community farm in Derbyshire which has been hit by a series of animal killings. People living near Willow Tree Family Farm, in Shirebrook, said the chickens were kicked around the town like footballs then thrown in a pond. Police increased patrols around the farm after two rabbits and a goose were brutally killed there in 2010. They are now trying to find the people responsible for the latest killings. David Taylor from the farm said: "We had a lot of things planned for this year but if things are going to happen like this what else is going to happen next? "If we get something else on site what else is going to go missing? What else are they going to take?" On 13 December 2010 the farm's owners found a decapitated goose. Two rabbits were killed at the farm later the same week. One had been decapitated and the other appeared to have been stamped on. The latest killings were reported to police on 6 January. Councillor Marion Stockdale, who represents Shirebrook and Pleasley for Derbyshire County Council, said: "It's deplorable. It doesn't matter what sort of creature it is. For them to be tortured and victimised that way, I find it's just unforgivable." Willow Tree Family Farm is managed by volunteers from the local area. It also supports disadvantaged adults and children by giving them the chance to help at the farm and gain skills. One of the farm's aims is to support community regeneration, but staff and volunteers are worried the killings give the area a bad name.
Sheffield has been given £10m to help create the UK's first sports medicine centre to promote exercise and fitness. The city, along with Loughborough and London, will host one of three hubs which will form the National Sports and Exercise Medicine Centre of Excellence. The hubs will promote exercise and fitness and treat injuries caused by exercise and conditions caused by lack of exercise. The Sheffield hub will be run by the city's two universities and the NHS. The government is funding the £30m project as part of its Olympic legacy commitments. Health Secretary Andrew Lansley said: "Hosting the Olympics is a once in a lifetime opportunity for Britain and it provides a great opportunity for the NHS too. "The centre will share research findings and best practice with the entire NHS so the whole country benefits." Sir Andrew Cash, chief executive of Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, said: "The focus of the Sheffield arm of the three Olympic legacy centres of excellence is centred on the promotion of physical activity and improvement of the health and productivity of the people of Sheffield. "The city is well placed to ensure this project is successful. "Sheffield has world-class sport and medical facilities complemented by world-class research and educational programmes in the city's two universities."
Police in India's Bihar state have arrested three men posing as doctors, who performed botched sterilisation surgery on 53 women in two hours. The tubectomy operations were carried out in a field and without the use of anaesthesia, in Araria district. The three suspects were arrested on suspicion of "conducting unauthorised and illegal operations", police said. Some of the women suffered complications as a result of the surgery and were taken to hospital. The district police chief Shivdeep Lande told the BBC the suspects had been identified as Gopal Jha, Prakash Jha and Ramanand Jha. He said the operations were organised by a group called the Jai Ambe Welfare Society. "The Jai Ambe Welfare Society has been regularly organising family planning camps in Bihar, putting lives of innocent women in danger," he said. "When I reached the spot I was surprised to find that not a single qualified doctor was present there and even the saline bottles used for the surgery were well past their expiry dates," Chief Lande said. Reports in the local media said the group had promised poor village women 600 rupees ($9; Â£7.50) and free medicines if they came for family planning operations, although it is unclear why.
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has branded malnutrition among children a "national shame", after a report said nearly half of children under five in the country were underweight. According to the report, 42% of children in that age bracket are suffering from malnutrition. Mr Singh said the level of malnutrition in India was "unacceptably high". The Hunger and Malnutrition Report also said that one in three malnourished children in the world is Indian. India was also found to have the highest rate in the world of stunted growth among children. The report, by a group of non-governmental organisations, surveyed 73,000 households across nine states. Mr Singh said the government could not rely solely on the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS) - India's largest nutritional programme - to tackle malnutrition. He said the findings of the report were both "worrying and encouraging". "The survey reports high levels of malnutrition, but it also indicates that one child in five has reached an acceptable healthy weight during the last seven years," he said. The prime minister emphasised the need for a more integrated approach towards tackling hunger in the country. Mr Singh said that "health professionals cannot solely concentrate on curative care. Drinking water and sanitation providers cannot be oblivious to the positive externality of their actions. The school teacher needs to be aware of the nutritional needs of the adolescent girl." The report' findings reflect others by international organisations like Unicef, which says that in India 20% of children under five years of age suffer from wasting due to acute under nutrition. At the end of 2011, the government tabled a landmark bill aimed at guaranteeing cheap food for more than half the country's population.
Fulham have signed 17-year-old midfielder Jack Grimmer from Aberdeen. The teenager will join the Cottagers' development squad for the remainder of the season, having agreed a three-year contract with the London club. Grimmer became the youngest Dons player when he made his debut against Rangers in April 2010, aged just 16 years, two months and 13 days old. He made three first-team appearances for the Pittodrie outfit but has not featured during this campaign. Fulham paid a fee of about £200,000 for the midfielder, who was under contract until the summer. "We received full value on the training compensation side, while agreeing to further add on terms," chief executive Duncan Fraser told the club website. "We made Jack an extremely good offer to remain at Pittodrie, having signed him straight from school. We are beginning to see young talent moving south before they are fully developed with the teams they signed for as youngsters "[Manager] Craig Brown emphasised that he would continue to be developed by being involved with the first team, with a view to him becoming a full first team squad member next season. "There is a bigger issue for Scottish football here in that we are beginning to see young talent moving south before they are fully developed with the teams they signed for as youngsters. "It is an issue we shall seek to raise with the Scottish Premier League and Scottish Football Association to see what steps can be taken to safeguard our clubs' interests."
A report has highlighted concerns over the process in which a prison became the first in the UK to be privatised. The final annual report from the Independent Monitoring Board for HMP Birmingham described staff morale as "palpably low" during the process. After nearly three years, G4S Care and Justice Services took over the prison in October last year. However, the board has also welcomed the new owner and "looks forward to innovations" that will help the prison. The Independent Monitoring Board (IMB) was concerned that the privatisation process, with promised announcements, was continually delayed. It felt that the implementation, from the initial announcement on 31 March to the new owners taking over on 1 October, took too long. The report praised prison staff who continued to cope with increasing problems, such as gang culture. During the process, the Prison Service was also bidding to retain the contract and inmates were said to be concerned about the privatisation. The IMB has recommended that "lessons be learned from HMP Birmingham's experience" and that similar processes should be shortened. Nine other prisons will go through the market-testing process. A spokesperson for the Ministry of Justice said: "We will formally respond to the IMB report on HMP Birmingham in due course. "The public have a right to expect continuing improvement in the quality and efficiency of public services, without compromising public safety. "The competition strategy and adjustments to the prison estate will help ensure that this is the case, while achieving best value for taxpayers."
The US territory of Guam is a keystone of American military strategy in the Pacific. Tourism and an expanding military presence form the bedrock of its economy. The island is an important staging post, allowing rapid access to potential flashpoints in the Koreas and in the Taiwan Strait. Washington plans to move thousands of troops to Guam from the Japanese island of Okinawa as part of a global realignment of its military. This proposed build-up of US forces has brought the issue of the island's future political status to the fore in recent years, Its official status is a "non-incorporated territory". Despite being US citizens, Guamanians lack voting rights in US elections. The indigenous Chamorro are a people of mixed Micronesian, Spanish and Filipino descent but the diverse population also includes Japanese, Chinese, and incomers from other Pacific islands. Population 184,000 Area 541 sq km (209 sq miles) Major language English, Chamorro (both official) Major religion Christianity Life expectancy 74 years (men), 79 years (women) Currency US dollar Head of state: Donald Trump Governor: Eddie Calvo Eddie Calvo, a Republican, was elected in November 2010 and was re-elected in 2014. The governor is elected to a four-year term. Although they are US citizens, residents of Guam do not vote in US national elections. Broadcasting on Guam is regulated by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC). By June 2016 there were 112,196 internet users (InternetWorldStats).
North Korea has announced that the body of late leader Kim Jong-il will lie in state permanently at a palace in the capital, Pyongyang. His body will be displayed at the Kumsusan Memorial Palace alongside his father, Kim Il-sung. There are also plans to build memorial towers for him, state media said, and his 16 February birthday will be marked as a "Day of the Shining Star". Kim Jong-il died of a heart attack on 17 December at the age of 69. His body was put on display at the palace before his elaborate funeral on 28 December. The news came in an announcement from state news agency KCNA. The decision to preserve Kim Jong-il was made to show "the unanimous desire and ardent request" of the party to hold Kim Jong-il in high esteem "as the eternal leader of the party", the KCNA report said. The Kumsusan Memorial Palace was "eternal president" Kim Il-sung's home before it was converted into a mausoleum after his death. The "Shining Star" is thought to be a reference to rockets built by North Korea under Mr Kim's policy of channelling funding to the military. Kim Jong-il has been succeeded by his son Kim Jong-un, who is believed to be in his late 20s.
A headless body has been found in the grounds of a psychiatric hospital in the Brislington area of Bristol. The remains were found by staff at Callington Road Hospital, a specialist unit for patients with psychiatric and addiction problems. It is thought the body, and the head found nearby, are those of a man and they had been there for six months. Avon and Wiltshire Mental Health Trust said none of its in-patients had been reported missing in that time. It is understood the body had been there for about six months and that it may have been recently disturbed by animals. An Avon and Somerset Police spokesman said the death did not appear to be suspicious adding that detectives were studying outpatient records as part of their attempts to identify the remains. "A post-mortem examination is due to take place in the next few days to try to find the cause of death," he added. The hospital, in Marmalade Lane, specialises in treating patients with drug and alcohol problems and people with mental health issues. It also offers psychiatric intensive care for men compulsorily detained, usually in secure conditions. Avon & Wiltshire Mental Health Trust, which owns the hospital, is a provider of specialist mental health services operating across Bath and North East Somerset, Bristol, North Somerset, South Gloucestershire, Swindon and Wiltshire.
Restoration work has started on a Victorian glasshouse at Wentworth Castle Gardens near Barnsley. The project will cost £3.7m, with support coming from sources including the European Union and the Heritage Lottery Fund. The Grade II structure which was built by Thomas Wentworth in 1885 has been derelict for a number of years. Anne Irish, Commercial Manager for the estate said the restoration work would bring the building back to glory. "Our aim is to restore as much of it as possible. "Apart from the restoration we will be adding to it too. What was once the potting shed we're going to turn it into an interpretation centre and add an education room. "We're hoping to restore as much of the original structure as possible. "It's a beautiful building even in its faded glory state. It's in a very dilapidated state." Wentworth Castle Gardens said the glasshouse had received funding from a European Regional Development Fund of £820,000, as well as £25,000 raised by volunteers. The Wentworth Estate has spent more than £17m already on the 500-acre site, since starting renovation work began in 2004. It has renovated areas from gardens, parkland and woodland through to the Grade I listed circular outbuilding called the Rotunda.
The Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) has held its last meeting. The authority is being disbanded as part of government plans for elected police commissioners. It will be replaced by the Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime (MOPC). The change means the mayor will now be accountable for the police's performance, however the commissioner will still be in charge of operations. The MOPC will take control of Scotland Yard's finances and employment. It will be monitored by the London Assembly. The MPA has 112 established posts. There have been no compulsory redundancies however 10 people will be leaving voluntarily. The change is part of the police reform and social responsibility bill which aims to give people a say in how they are policed. London is the first police body to launch as it already has a directly elected mayor. The rest of the country will follow later on in the year after local elections are held. The leadership of the MPA has changed in recent years after the law was changed in 2008 to allow the mayor to be the head. In 2010, current mayor Boris Johnson said he was stepping down as chair to "reorganise and refocus his team" on to other projects. When he was elected, Mr Johnson said he would personally take charge of the police to tackle crime in the capital, but his time was marked by a series of controversies. In October 2008, the previous Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair announced he was stepping down from his post, citing of a lack of support from the mayor as a reason. Mr Johnson was also accused of abusing his position after admitting he contacted Tory shadow immigration minister Damian Green after his arrest on suspicion of leaking sensitive Home Office documents.
Security police have used tear gas and stun grenades to break up an anti-government march in Bahrain's capital, Manama. The organisers say more than 3,000 people took part, in spite of a heavy security presence. The government says the protest was illegal. Activists from Bahrain's Shia Muslim majority have been demonstrating against the kingdom's ruling Sunni monarchy since last February. Thursday's march in the centre of Manama was led by a prominent human rights activist, Nabeel Rajab. "We are using the streets peacefully. We are marching for our rights," he told the BBC. One activist tweeted: "Manama is filled with tear gas, protesters running in all directions, followed by shooting and riot police." A government official confirmed to the BBC that the authorities had acted to disperse the march. "Security forces warned those involved and requested them to disperse, but after they disobeyed orders the security forces took the necessary legal measures," the official said. Excessive force Bahrain's Shia Muslim majority has long complained of discrimination and human rights abuses at the hands of security police. The Interior Ministry was heavily criticised in a report by an independent committee of experts released in November. It found that the security police had used excessive force and had systematically tortured detainees while suppressing  pro-democracy protests that began in February 2011. More than 40 people were killed during the violence. The report, commissioned by the king, was seen as an attempt to defuse tensions between the government and the predominantly Shia protesters. Ahead of the latest march, the government said it would rebuild 12 Shia mosques that were demolished during last year's unrest.
German bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff has announced that he is to retire from the concert stage. The 52-year-old said on his website he was ending his nearly 40-year-career due to health issues. "My health no longer allows me to live up to the high standard that I have always set for my art and myself," he said in a statement. The singer said he would continue to teach at the Hanns Eisler Academy of Music in Berlin. Born with serious physical defects caused by his mother's exposure, during pregnancy, to the drug thalidomide, Quasthoff stands four feet tall due to a shortening of his leg bones. Initially denied admission to music conservatory owing to his condition, he has since appeared on stages around the world performing under the likes of conductors Daniel Barenboim, James Levine, Zubin Mehta and Riccardo Muti. "I owe a lot to this wonderful profession and leave without a trace of bitterness," Quasthoff said. "On the contrary, I am looking forward to the new challenges that will now enter my life. "I would like to thank all my fellow musicians and colleagues, with whom I stood together on stage, all the organizers, and my audience for their loyalty." He will also continue his role as artistic director of biennial song competition, Das Lied, which he created in 2009. After making his mark as a Lied and concert singer, he took up opera in 2003, singing the minister from Fidelio at the Salzburg Easter Festival and following it up with a performance as Amfortas at the Vienna State Opera a year later.
The price of Afghan opium rose dramatically in 2011, the UN has said. Opium poppy farmers in Afghanistan probably earned more than $1.4bn (Â£910m) last year - equivalent to 9% of the country's GDP, it estimates. Prices started to rise in 2010 after the poppy crop was hit by a fungal disease. The head of the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime said opium helped fund the Taliban insurgency and fuelled corruption in Afghanistan. "Opium is a significant part of the Afghan economy," Yury Fedotov said. Around 90% of the world's opium comes from Afghanistan, according to the office, which carries out an annual survey of production there. The Afghan Opium Survey for 2011 found that the value of opium in the country had increased by 133%. Areas of poppy cultivation which had been affected by the fungal disease in 2010 recovered and yields went back up. Last year's survey had predicted a rise in poppy planting as farmers responded to higher market prices. Three provinces which had been declared "poppy-free" (estimated to have less than 100 hectares of opium cultivation) are now affected by poppy cultivation once again - Kapisa in the east, and Baghlan and Faryab in the north. Opium derives from the sap produced by poppy seed heads after flowering. This can be refined into morphine - which can then be further processed to make heroin for the illegal drugs trade.
A 79-year-old cancer patient at a Lincolnshire hospital was sent home with a blood transfusion tube still attached to his arm. Michael Gurney, of Croft near Skegness, was given a transfusion on Wednesday at Boston Pilgrim Hospital but the tube, called a canula, was left in his arm. His wife Cynthia called the hospital but was told to contact her GP to remove it. A hospital spokesman apologised and said an investigation was under way. Mr Gurney, who has prostate cancer, has to have blood transfusions every two weeks. His wife said: "He arrived home at 9.40 in a taxi and he was very weak and distressed. He said 'I have a job for you to do - can you take this tube out of my arm?'" The tube was removed on Thursday. Mrs Gurney said she was "horrified" by the mistake and described the hospital's response as "pathetic". Boston Pilgrim Hospital said in a statement: "We offer our sincere apologies to Mr Gurney however we cannot comment on individual patient cases "We are looking into what happened during the process of Mr Gurney's care and will contact him directly to discuss this." In 2011, Boston Pilgrim Hospital was the subject of an investigation by the Care Quality Commission which raised concerns about the quality of patient care. A report published in November outlined 21 separate recommendations.
Home to fewer than 2,000 people, the Pacific island of Niue is trying to encourage some of the 20,000 overseas Niueans - many of whom migrated to New Zealand - to return. The coral atoll operates in free association with New Zealand, its main source of aid and biggest trading partner. All Niueans are New Zealand citizens with Wellington handling Niue's defence and foreign policy. Cyclone Heta devastated Niue in 2004. Fishing, agriculture and tourism are economic mainstays and the island attracts whale-watchers, divers and yachting enthusiasts. Niue has embraced the internet, earning money from the sale of its suffix, and in 2003 became the first territory to offer a free wireless internet service to all residents. Lying between Tonga and the Cook Islands, Niue was settled by Samoans in the first century AD. Britain's Captain James Cook sighted the island in 1774 and British missionaries arrived in the 19th century. Niue was subsequently administered from New Zealand, becoming self-governing in 1974. Population 1,400 Area 260 sq km (100 sq miles) Major languages Niuean, English Major religion Christianity Life expectancy 67 (men), 76 (women) Currency New Zealand dollar Head of state: Queen Elizabeth II Prime minister: Toke Talagi Toke Talagi was first elected in June 2008 to serve a three-year term. He gained the backing of parliament for another term in May 2011 and was re-elected in April 2014. Mr Talagi previously served as deputy premier and finance minister. He is also president of the Niue Rugby Union. Most of Niue's media is government-owned and funded. Expansion of the internet has led to a growth in online media. The Broadcasting Corporation of Niue (BCN) runs the island's only television network Television Niue and Radio Sunshine. The Niue Star is the country's only independent source of print news.
President Barack Obama has formally notified Congress of proposals for a $1.2 trillion (£782bn) rise in borrowing, risking another battle with Republicans. In a letter, Mr Obama said "further borrowing is required to meet existing (spending) commitments". Congress has 15 days to vote on the proposal, which would raise the debt ceiling to $16.4 trillion. Last year the government came close to default in a row over the debt ceiling. An uneasy truce between was agreed last year over long-term plans to reduce the nation's deficit. Although the president is expected to be able to increase the debt ceiling, the issue will still give the Republicans more ammunition to claim Mr Obama is failing on deficit reduction. Mr Obama hoped to increase the limit by 30 December, but the House and Senate requested a delay until they were back in session. It meant that in order to pay its bills, the administration had to dip into its Exchange Stabilization Fund, a pot of money normally used by the US Treasury to maintain currency stability. A Treasury official said other measures, such as suspending the daily reinvestments of assets in a government pension fund, may also be needed until the debt-limit increase is secured.
Fast food giant McDonald's is to extend its sponsorship of the Olympic Games for another eight years until 2020. It is an International Olympic Committee (IOC) Top Partner, paying a reported $100m for each two-games deal of one winter and one summer Games. The new deal covers the 2014 winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and 2016 summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The 2018 winter Games will be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and the 2020 summer venue is yet to be decided. The company has been an Olympics sponsor since 1976. It is the seventh of the 11 top-tier sponsors to renew its partnership with the IOC until 2020. The others are Coca-Cola, Dow Chemicals, General Electric, Omega, Procter & Gamble and Visa. A further three firms have extended their sponsorship until 2016. It is estimated that the IOC has garnered about $1bn in sponsorship revenue in the current four-year cycle which ends this year 2012. London 2012: Latest Olympic news, sport, features and programmes from the BBC McDonald's said the restaurant chain would use the extended partnership to introduce several new programmes "focused on balanced eating and fun play for children". "We are delighted that McDonald's, our long-time and valued Olympic Partner for more than 35 years, is continuing its ongoing commitment not only to help fund the Olympic Games, but also to support the Olympic Movement around the world and ultimately the athletes themselves," IOC President Jacques Rogge said in a statement.
Lil Wayne is to release a book consisting of diaries he wrote during his time in prison. The rapper served eight months of a one year sentence in New York's Rikers Island jail after pleading guilty to gun possession. The book, called Gone Till November, is due to be released later this year. The memoirs will feature Lil Wayne's thoughts on family, children and the people he has met in his lifetime, Grand Central Publishing said. The 29-year-old, whose real name is Dwayne Carter, has also written about his plans for the future. Ben Greenberg, executive editor at the publishing company, said the journal would be "revealing". "[Lil Wayne] kept detailed journals of his inner and outer life while he was on Rikers Island, and they certainly tell a story. They are revealing," he said. The book is set to be released on 28 November 2012. The rapper is best known for his singles Lollipop, Drop The World and BedRock - which reached number nine in the UK singles chart. In September, his current album Tha Carter IV broke iTunes sales records. Carter is nominated for four Grammy awards at next month's ceremony, including best rap album and best rap song for Look At Me Now - a collaboration with Chris Brown and Busta Rhymes. Kelly Clarkson, Taylor Swift, Nicki Minaj, Bruno Mars and Foo Fighters are due to perform at the event.
A French court has found the British low-cost airline Easyjet guilty of discriminating against three disabled passengers in 2008 and 2009. The court fined Easyjet 70,000 euros ($90,000, Â£58,000) for not allowing the unaccompanied wheelchair users onto a plane at Charles de Gaulle airport near Paris, citing safety concerns. A lawyer for the three passengers described it as a "landmark ruling". Easyjet has denied any "discriminatory intention" and says it may appeal. During the trial prosecutor Abdelkrim Grini said Easyjet's business model was behind the discrimination. He accused the company of having "an aggressive commercial policy that consists of reducing operating costs as much as possible". All three of the passengers who brought the case were told they could not check in for their flights because they did not have a helper to assist with their evacuation in the event of an emergency. One of the three, Karine Viera, had ticked a box when booking on the Easyjet website to say she was in a wheelchair, the French disability rights group APF says. The group says she was denied a refund when she went to the company's main desk at the airport. The court ordered Easyjet to pay each of the passengers 2,000 euros ($2,500, Â£1,660) in compensation. A lawyer for the three, Patrick de la Grange, said: "This is an economic model that's being punished, that of low-cost. With cost reductions, the aim is to have as few personnel as possible." Easyjet said it carried 1,000 reduced-mobility passengers every day and was disappointed by the outcome of the case. "The company denies having had any discriminatory intention whatsoever," company lawyer, Philippe Van der Meulen said, adding that Easyjet would consider appealing against the verdict. The company will face further similar charges at another court case in Paris in March.
A Roman Catholic priest from north-west Las Vegas has been sentenced to three years and one month in a US prison for using parish funds for gambling. Monsignor Kevin McAuliffe was convicted of taking $650,000 (Â£424,000) away from his congregation to support his gambling habit. Defence lawyers asked for probation so McAuliffe could keep practising as a priest and get addiction counselling. But the judge added four months to the sentence that prosecutors pushed for. Prosecutors argued McAuliffe was able to hide his activities because he was a signatory to the financial statements of the Las Vegas diocese and the archdiocese in San Francisco. In his defence, his lawyer argued that McAuliffe had begun returning the money to his parish since May and had paid back $13,420 to date. In October, McAuliffe pleaded guilty to three counts of mail fraud and falsifying documents sent to the archdiocese in 2008, 2009 and 2010. He was also removed from his Las Vegas parish and stripped of duties to the diocese. Supporters sobbed in the courtroom as the judge told McAuliffe he had abused his position of trust within the church community. McAuliffe offered a remorseful apology, the Associated Press reported, saying he felt "guilt, shame and self-loathing''. He accepted his loss of authority within the Church and asked for leniency so he could make restitution. He could have received up to 60 years in prison.
The Communist Party has a strong grip on the media. The Ministry of Culture and Information controls the press and broadcasting. Media outlets and journalists risk sanctions for broaching sensitive topics and for criticising the government. But some press titles and online outlets do report on corruption in official circles. The authorities maintain a tight grip on the media Vietnam's bid to tame the internet boom TV is the dominant medium. State-run Vietnam Television (VTV) broadcasts from Hanoi. There is a growing pay TV industry, which includes the K+ satellite platform. State-run Voice of Vietnam (VoV) has six radio networks, including VoV 5 with programmes in English, French and Russian. There are hundreds of newspapers and magazines. The best-selling dailies are Tuoi Tre and Thanh Nien, which are run by youth organizations in Ho Chi Minh City. There were 45.5 million internet users by December 2014 (InternetWorldStats.com). Material deemed obscene is filtered, as are opposition sites. ISPs occasionally block access to Facebook. Zing Me is a leading, domestically-owned gaming and social networking platform. Another social media site, Go.vn, is run by the state broadcaster. Most social networking is non-political, with activists tending to favour blogging. There has been "massive" use of cyber attacks to silence dissent, and blogging "has become dangerous", says media freedom watchdog Reporters sans frontiÃ¨res (RSF). Of the 34 bloggers currently detained, 25 were held since January 2011, when Vietnamese Communist Party's general secretary Nguyen Phu Trong took office. In September 2013 Hanoi issued Decree 72, banning the use of blogs and social networks to share information about news developments. RSF says this move "took censorship to a new level".
The leader of protests against land grabs in a southern Chinese village has been appointed its new chief. Lin Zulian will head the new Communist Party Committee in Wukan and organise elections for a new village committee. His predecessor is under investigation for alleged corruption. Anger in Wukan over land seizures by officials resulted in an open revolt against local party leaders in December. The villagers' key demands - including removing two local officials from their posts - were granted by officials amid considerable public backing for the villagers. The move was seen as a rare compromise by the Chinese government. Mr Lin on Sunday replaced the incumbent Wukan chief, a businessman who had headed the village for decades but who local people accused of land grabs. "This is a decision that everyone in Wukan supports and it is an important move that will help resolve the land and village finance disputes," a villager with the surname of Zhang was quoted by news agency Agence France Presse as saying. Protests began to simmer in Wukan, in Guangdong province, in September and escalated into deadlock after the death of a village negotiator in police custody. Villagers said officials sold off their land to developers and failed to compensate them properly. They also called for an investigation into the death of Xue Jinbo, who died on 11 December while in the hands of local police. Police say he died of a "sudden illness", but his family say he was beaten to death. In December deputy provincial Communist Party secretary Zhu Mingguo met village representatives and reached an agreement to end the stand-off. There are thousands of protests over land grabs in China each year, with the Wukan protest becoming a symbol of public outrage at perceived injustices.
A man who handed out a leaflet calling for homosexuals to be executed has said he was just doing his "duty as a Muslim". Kabir Ahmed, 28, is one of five Muslim men on trial for stirring up hatred on the grounds of sexual orientation at Derby Crown Court. The leaflet, named The Death Penalty?, was one of three distributed in Derby ahead of a gay pride event in 2010. The literature was described in court as "frightening and threatening". Mr Ahmed, of Madeley Street, Derby, admitted giving the leaflet to people outside the city's Jamia Mosque as well as putting them through letterboxes. Its cover featured a mannequin hanging from a noose and said homosexuality was punishable by death under Islam. However, he denied the leaflets had been created to spread hatred against gay people. He said: "My intention was to do my duty as a Muslim, to inform people of God's word and to give the message on what God says about homosexuality. "My duty is not just to better myself but to try and better the society I live in. "We believe we can't just stand by and watch somebody commit a sin. We must try and advise them to stay away from sin." The group produced and distributed two other leaflets, called God Abhors You and Turn Or Burn. A fourth leaflet, called Dead Derby, was found but not circulated. The four other men, Ihjaz Ali, 42, of Fairfax Road; Mehboob Hussain, 45, of Rosehill Street; Umar Javed, 38, of Whittaker Street and his brother Razwan Javed, 28, of Wilfred Street, also deny the charges. The trial continues.
An 11-year-old girl was left trapped under water when a catamaran capsized, an inquest has been told. Laura Morgan from Woodborough, Nottinghamshire, drowned in the accident in Paleros, Greece, in 2003. Laura's mother, Lynne Morgan, told the Nottingham Council House her daughter was rushed to hospital by speed boat. However, after being made to sit outside the hospital on a stone bench, Mrs Morgan said somebody came out to tell her Laura had drowned. Earlier, the court heard from Molly McCullough, now 22, a girl who Laura had become friends with during the holiday. The pair had taken out the catamaran and decided to take trapeze harnesses, which allow someone to lean out to help steer the boat. Ms McCullough then described how the catamaran was caught by the wind and turned over on its side. She was not alarmed at first but then it completely capsized, describing it as "turning turtle". Laura became trapped underneath when her trapeze harness was tangled in the rigging, the inquest heard. Ms McCullough told the court a rescue boat arrived shortly afterwards and the crew battled in vain to rescue Laura. Two employees of the UK-based operator Sunsail were convicted of causing death through negligence and given suspended prison sentences. The inquest could only take place after legal proceedings in Greece had been completed. The Nottingham Girls' High School pupil drowned on 31 July, 2003. The inquest continues.
The Federated Farmers of New Zealand are calling for sheep shearing to become an Olympic sport, pointing to the ''shear hard work'' required. ''I can testify to the physical effort shearing takes,'' said federation spokeswoman Jeanette Maxwell. Shearing is recognised as a sport by the New Zealand funding body SPARC. In 2008 Sports Shear Australia, which oversees competitions in the country, also mooted the idea for the Beijing Games. "Surely, time has come to elevate shearing's sporting status to the ultimate world stage?" said Ms Maxwell, in a statement. "One way would be to make shearing a demonstration sport at a Commonwealth Games, if not, the Olympics itself." She emphasised the athleticism of top shearers. Ivan Scott, the current male world record holder, earned his world eight-hour solo title by sheering 749 lambs, she said. The women's record holder, Kerri-Jo Te Huia, smashed a previous record by 37, shearing 507 lambs in eight hours. It takes an average of four hours or more to run a marathon. Hence, the eight-hour sheep shearing period has often been likened to running two marathons in a row. There is already a global competition in place - the upcoming World Shearing Championships will be held in the New Zealand town of Masterton in March. Countries besides Australia and New Zealand that have taken part in the competition include Britain and Ireland, Norway and South Africa among others.
A Guernsey history group has explored a World War II German bunker believed to have been untouched since 1947. Festung Guernsey entered the structure at Cobo in January 2012 and were able to locate part of a weapon mount. The bunker on the west coast of the island was found to be flooded and empty of any other equipment, although some stencils and fittings were found. Ian Brehaut, of Festung Guernsey, said: "As yet we've never really found an Aladdin's Cave." He said of the find at Cobo: "It's that excitement of opening up a bunker you know nobody's been in and there's the possibility of finding little bits and pieces." Mr Brehaut said the bunker yielded a part of a barrel adapter of a machine gun that had once been mounted there. He said the original structure had "a large armoured turret" at the front of the bunker with two heavy machine guns attached, and weighed in the region of 47 tonnes. This was destroyed by scrap metal merchants after the war ended. Mr Brehaut said Festung Guernsey had a similar gun mount on which the piece that was found could be displayed. He said this may eventually end up on display in an identical bunker at Fort Hommet. Festung Guernsey has documented a number of World War II fortifications around Guernsey. Mr Brehaut said: "We're running out of sites to do, but there are one or two that still haven't been opened, so we'll wait and see."
Norwich City have completed the signing of 23-year-old Leeds captain Jonny Howson for an undisclosed fee. Media playback is not supported on this device The midfielder agreed personal terms with the Canaries this week and, having passed his medical, he has penned a three-and-a-half-year deal. "He can add goals to our midfield, which I think we need," said Norwich manager Paul Lambert. "He'll get better as a player the higher the level he goes up. If he does that he'll be a great player for us." Former England Under-21 international Howson, a product of the Leeds academy, has made almost 200 appearances since his debut in 2006, but his contract was due to expire in the summer. He has featured 22 times for his home town club this season, although he has not played since picking up a knee injury in the 2-0 win over Millwall at the beginning of December. Meanwhile, Lambert has outlined a back injury as the reason for terminating the season-long loan of Manchester United defender Ritchie de Laet five months early. The 23-year-old Belgian has played seven times for the Canaries, but has not featured since the 2-0 Premier League loss to Tottenham on 27 December. "Ritchie's done great for us," said Lambert. "But he has a back injury which was keeping him out for periods of time."
Don McLean and The Dubliners are to be given lifetime achievement awards at this year's BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards. Both acts will also perform at the ceremony, which celebrates the best of UK folk music, at The Lowry in Salford on 8 February. Now in its 13th year, the awards will be broadcast live on Radio 2, while fans will also be able to watch it live via the BBC Red Button. The Unthanks lead the nominations with four nods. The Northumberland singing sisters are up for best group, best live act, best album for Last and best original song for the album's title track. The Dubliners, who formed in 1962, are one of Ireland's most recognisable folk groups. McLean, best known for hits including American Pie and Vincent, has amassed more than 40 gold and platinum records worldwide. "The UK audience has been among the most loyal for over 40 years and without them certainly I wouldn't be considered for this honour, so I thank the BBC and I thank the British public," the singer-songwriter said. McLean will also perform on Simon Mayo's Radio 2 Drivetime show live from The Lowry ahead of the awards. Among the other nominees include June Tabor and Oysterband, who are up for best group, best album for Ragged Kingdom and best traditional track for Bonny Bunch of Roses, while Tabor is also nominated for folk singer of the year. Martin Simpson has three nods for best album, best traditional track and musician of the year. The Folk Awards ceremony will also be combined with the BBC Radio 2 Young Folk Award, which is given to the most promising young folk artist in the UK.
A council has warned residents not to attach objects to trees - in a notice attached to a tree. Islington Council said the poster in Highbury Fields, north London, had been put up "in error" by a junior worker. It read: "Please do not attach or affix any structures or objects to the park furniture and trees at Highbury Fields including the benches and lamp posts." A council spokesman said it had now moved the notice to a nearby noticeboard. The notice, which asked residents to respect the park and be responsible, was spotted by Nadi Jahangiri, an architect who lives nearby. He said: "A lot of people have been putting signs up on the trees about lost cats and so on with drawing pins - it really annoys me. "I walked up to it to rip it down, only to find it was telling people not to attach anything to trees!" He continued: "Lots of people soon gathered around laughing. "There was lots of grumpy huffiness and indignation about our taxes being used for this. "If you want to stop someone doing something, doing it yourself is an odd way to go about it - but that's Islington Council for you." A spokesman for the council said: "This was a mistake by a junior member of staff who thought they were doing the right thing to protect the trees. "Yesterday we removed the sign to a nearby noticeboard as intended."
Former Wales captain Kevin Ratcliffe has backed the choice of Chris Coleman as successor to Gary Speed as national team manager. Coleman previously managed Fulham, Coventry and Real Sociedad. And Ratcliffe believes that Coleman is a sensible selection to provide continuity following the loss of Speed. "I think we need a Welshman in charge and I do not think there were too many other candidates around who could come in," Ratcliffe told BBC Sport. "From what you hear it was a close call between Gary and Chris last time the FAW chose the manager so I think this does provide some sort of continuity as far as they are concerned. "And from a financial point of view it makes sense as they don't have to pay compensation. Chris goes in there with a good track record and he's got a good reputation in the game "Chris is a good man and a proud Welshman, so he will be passionate about the job and want to carry on the good work started by Gary." Coleman won 32 caps for Wales and was a colleague of Speed at international level. "Chris goes in there with a good track record and he's got a good reputation in the game. He did very well for a long spell at Fulham. I know things didn't work out for him at Coventry City but financially things were tough and no-one else has been able to do too well there." Ratcliffe, who won 59 caps for Wales, added: "Obviously there have been a lot of emotions after what happened with Gary but I think Chris is a good choice and deserves support. He has some very good, maturing young players to work with as well."
Yahya Jammeh has been sworn in for a fourth term as Gambia's president and promised to "wipe out 82%" of workers, accusing them of being lazy. The former army officer promised to be "even more dangerous than when I was in uniform". He also vowed to turn his tiny West African nation into an "economic superpower" over the next five years. President Jammeh first seized power in 1994 but was re-elected in December in a widely criticised poll. "You cannot be in your offices every day doing nothing... and at the end of the day you expect to be paid," he said on a televised address on Wednesday. "This has to stop. You either do your work or leave or go to jail," the president said. "I will wipe out almost 82% of those in the workforce in the next five years starting this Friday unless they change their attitudes," he said - without elaborating. Mr Jammeh also promised "zero tolerance" on corruption and drugs. The Gambia - a popular destination for foreign tourists - has recently become a key transit point for cocaine trafficked from Latin America. The president also promised to focus more on the empowerment of women and create more jobs for the youth. Mr Jammeh - who first came to power in a bloodless coup in 1994 - has been criticised by international rights groups for suppressing any dissent. On Tuesday, former Information Minister Amadou Scatred Janneh, a US citizen, was sentenced to life in jail for plotting a coup and distributing T-shirts with the slogan "End to Dictatorship Now".
Microsoft's profits in the three months to the end of December fell slightly as lower computer sales hit its core Windows business. The world's largest software firm made a net profit of $6.624bn (Â£4.27bn), against $6.634bn for its second quarter last year. Revenues rose 5% to $20.89bn, slightly down on some analysts' expectations. Revenue at the Windows operating system division fell, but rose at its server, Xbox 360 and online services arms. Wall Street welcomed the figures, with Microsoft's shares rising 2.1% in after-hours trading. Colin Gillis, an analyst with BGC, said: "People were afraid it was going to be much, much worse." Tighter cost control and a continuing reduction of losses at the Bing search engine helped boost the figures, he said. Analysts were expecting a fall in business at the Windows division due to slower sales of PCs. The computer industry is facing a worldwide shortage of hard disk drives due to flood devastation in Thailand hitting suppliers. But Windows is also facing competition from the growth of tablet computers such as Apple's iPad and mobile devices using Google's Android system. However, Microsoft is hitting back with the release of Windows 8, an operating system for PCs and mobile devices. Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said in a statement: "We delivered solid financial results, even as we prepare for a launch year that will accelerate many of our key products and services." During the quarter the Windows and Windows Live division posted revenue of $4.74bn, a 6% fall on the previous year. The Entertainment & Devices division saw the sharpest revenue rise, up 15% to $4.24bn.
Intel's profits beat Wall Street forecasts despite the chipmaker warning last month that slower global PC sales might dent its figures. Net profits in the last three months of 2011 rose 6% to $3.4bn (Â£2.2bn) on revenues up 21% at $13.9bn. Floods in Thailand have hit supplies of computer hard drives. Analysts want Intel to move faster into the tablet and mobile market and Intel promised on Thursday to spend more developing chips for new devices. The company also said it would boost capital expenditure in 2012 to about $12.5bn, up from $10.7bn in 2011. Intel president and chief executive Paul Otellini said 2011 had been an "exceptional" year. "With outstanding execution the company performed superbly, growing revenue by more than $10bn and eclipsing all annual revenue and earnings records," he said in a statement. He added: "With a tremendous product and technology pipeline for 2012, we're excited about the global growth opportunities presented by Ultrabook systems, the data centre, security and the introduction of Intel-powered smartphones and tablets." Evercore Partners analyst Patrick Wang said: "The biggest surprise is the capex for the new year. "They're investing to catch up and not only be at parity but exceed where the handset incumbents are."
More than 600 staff are on a waiting list for parking, according to the trust running a West Midlands hospital. Residents living around the Good Hope Hospital in Sutton Coldfield have said cars are being illegally parked on local streets by staff and patients. Paul Quinsey, head of technical services, said the hospital is looking at demountable parking decks above existing car parks as one solution. He said there are currently 626 staff waiting for a parking space. Roger Bayliss, who had an appointment for an X-ray at the hospital, said he spent more than an hour looking for a parking space. He said: "I would have abandoned my appointment had I been able to turn around and get out of the hospital, but the traffic was so gridlocked all across the site there was absolutely no option but to sit and wait." Conservative councillor David Pears, who represents the Sutton Trinity Ward which covers the Good Hope hospital, said residents had put up with parking problems for "far too long". He said: "We've met with the hospital, we've got the MP involved, but it just seems the hospital is unwilling to spend money on a scheme that will make life easier for the residents." Mr Quinsey said the hospital is working alongside its publicly elected governors and staff to see how it can address the current issues around parking. He said a plan to set up a park-and-ride scheme had been rejected because of its affordability and long transfer times.
BBC Sport presents coverage of the artistic gymnastics European Championships from Russia. Some of Great Britain's London 2012 medallists, including Dan Purvis, Max Whitlock and Sam Oldham, return to action as the road to Rio 2016 gets underway in Russia. Friday 19 April 1300-1630, BBC Two/online Matt Baker presents coverage of the artistic gymnastics European Championships from Moscow, with expert analysis from London Olympic medallists Louis Smith and Kristian Thomas. There's live coverage of the women's all-around competition plus highlights of the men's all-around, with some of Great Britain's London 2012 heroes back in action. Saturday 20 April 1030-1400 GMT, Red Button/online Live coverage from Moscow of the day's five apparatus finals, with British all-around champion Max Whitlock hoping to at least emulate the bronze medal he won on the pommel horse at last summer's Olympic Games. Team-mate Daniel Keatings could also be a contender, having won the European title in 2010. The men's floor and rings titles are also decided, along with the women's vault and uneven bars. Sunday 21 April 1300-1430, BBC Two/online Highlights of the 10 apparatus finals as the European Championships concludes in Moscow. The eight gymnasts in each final came through qualifying during the week and now start afresh in their quest for gold.
Find group standings, scores and results below following Andy Murray's victory at the ATP World Tour Finals, cementing his place as world number one at the end of the season. Murray beat Djokovic 6-3 6-4 Murray beat Raonic 5-7 7-6 (7-5) 7-6 (11-9) Djokovic beat Nishikori 6-1 6-1 Murray beat Cilic 6-3 6-2 Nishikori beat Wawrinka 6-2 6-3 Murray beat Nishikori 6-7 (9-11) 6-4 6-4 Wawrinka beat Cilic 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-3) Murray beat Wawrinka 6-4 6-2 Djokovic beat Thiem 6-7 (10-12) 6-0 6-2 Raonic beat Monfils 6-3 6-4 Thiem beat Monfils 6-3 1-6 6-4 Djokovic beat Raonic 7-6 (8-6) 7-6 (7-5) Djokovic beat Goffin 6-1 6-2 Raonic beat Thiem 7-6 (7-5) 6-3 * means qualified for the semi-finals ** Monfils has withdrawn because of injury *** Goffin replaced Monfils as an alternate NB Fixtures and event start times are subject to change. The BBC is not responsible for any changes that may be made. * All online broadcasts are UK only. If you have any questions about the BBC's tennis coverage please first consult our main FAQs page. You can view all our TV and Red Button broadcasts as well as listen to our radio sports programming on the BBC iPlayer. The BBC Sport website is available via desktop, mobile, tablet and app. The BBC Sport app is available free for Apple and Android devices.
A surgeon has reattached TV magician Paul Daniels' finger after he cut it off with a saw on New Year's Day. Daniels, 73, lost his left index finger and the tip of his ring finger in an accident with a circular saw while building props for his act. He drove himself from his Berkshire home to hospital in Henley-on-Thames, where the index finger was reattached. He told BBC Radio 5 Live: "I've only lost the tip of one finger. It could have been a hell of a sight worse." He added: "It's all healing up now and it's coming along really well; the surgeon's really pleased, the sensation's there, it's all bending. I will have to adapt when I get all the bandages off for the handling of some of the stuff I do." Daniels said he was on his own at the time while his wife and assistant Debbie was being interviewed on a BBC radio station. Daniels said on his blog: "Bad moments recur, the worst being full shock state one night which turned me into a gibbering wreck as I relived the moment it happened. This has given me a fuller understanding of shock. It's not nice." He said he was recuperating while preparing for his new theatre tour, which will begin in February.
Two thousand people have attended the first major event of the 2012 Preston Guild year. The Christian Unity service was held for the first time at the Guild Hall. It marked the start of Preston Guild, a celebration which has been held every 20 years since 1179. One of the organisers, Steve Garsed, said he was "absolutely thrilled" almost 80 churches united for the service. He said: "This Christian Unity service is a commitment to start working together through Guild year and beyond and serve our city." The event marked a more prominent role for faith in this year's Guild. Previously, the church's involvement was in the Guild procession. Highlights include a religious drama filmed in the city called Preston Passion, to be broadcast on BBC One on Good Friday, and the Methodist Collection of Modern Art. Mr Garsed said: "The Methodist art exhibition is the second most prestigious exhibition of religious art after the Vatican collection so it is well worth seeing." The Preston Guild has been held every 20 years since King Henry II granted the town the right to have a Guild Merchant and gave the town its first royal charter. It is the only Guild celebration still held in the UK.
The legendary former football coach of Penn State University, Joe Paterno, has died, reports say. Mr Paterno led Penn State to more wins than any other top division college football coach in US history. He was sacked in November 2011 after 46 years in the post, amid accusations that he failed to act over child abuse claims against an assistant coach. Mr Paterno, 85, was suffering from lung cancer. He fell and broke his pelvis at his home in December. His family said on Sunday that "he died as he lived". "He fought hard until the end, stayed positive, thought only of others and constantly reminded everyone of how blessed his life had been," they said in a statement. Mr Paterno was a hero to many for winning more games than anyone else in major college football - 409 victories at Penn State. But his reputation became tarnished when, in November, his former assistant coach, Jerry Sandusky, 63, was arrested for allegedly abusing eight boys between 1994 and 2009. Mr Paterno was forced to resign after it emerged he had been told that Mr Sandusky had been seen abusing a boy as young as 10 in a locker room shower in 2002, but failed to alert the police. Mr Paterno said he had alerted the university's athletic director about the allegation, but regretted not taking it further. Police have said that Mr Paterno fulfilled his minimum legal requirement but have suggested the coach had a moral responsibility to do more. "This is a tragedy," the former coach told the Washington Post. "It is one of the great sorrows of my life. With the benefit of hindsight, I wish I had done more".
A group of 90 pilot whales have beached on a spit at the northern tip of New Zealand's South Island - the second incident in the area this month. The whales in Farewell Spit, Golden Bay, are being kept cool by conservation staff. Officials are hoping that the whales will be able to refloat themselves when the tide rises in the evening. Seven whales died in the same area earlier this month when 25 of them were stranded. "We generally get one stranding a summer and we occasionally get two, but since I've been here in the past 10 years, we've never had three," regional conservation area manager John Mason was quoted by the New Zealand Herald as saying. The whales were spotted by an aircraft pilot while flying over Farewell Spit, he added. In November, 47 whales also died in the same area when a pod of 65 got stranded. Pilot whales - which are mammals and belong to the dolphin family - can grow up to 20 feet and weigh up to three tons. Scientists do not know what causes mass beaching of whales. They are most common in New Zealand in the summer, when whales pass by on their migration to and from Antarctic waters.
A man has been jailed for life for the "motiveless and brutal" murder of a Brighton man in his city centre flat. David Sole, 33, of no fixed address, had denied murdering Jonathan Ellison but was found guilty at Lewes Crown Court of beating him to death. Denise Antonia, 33, of Appledore Road, Brighton, was cleared of murder but found guilty of assisting an offender. She was jailed for five years. Mr Ellison was found dead in his flat in Gloucester Street on 8 April 2011. Sole and Antonia were arrested in Winchester, Hampshire, on 16 April following an investigation by Sussex Police's major crime branch. Following the two-week trial, Sole was told he would serve a minimum term of 18 years. Det Ch Insp Trevor Bowles said: "Jon Ellison was killed by a man who had befriended him and who he trusted. "His trust led to his death, as the result of a motiveless but brutal drug and drink-fuelled assault, which caused some of the worst injuries any of us have ever seen." Mr Bowles said Mr Ellison was a "vulnerable man with many health and personal problems" but he was regarded as "a kind and trusted person". In a statement issued through Sussex Police, Mr Ellison's brothers said: "He did not deserve to be taken in such a brutal way. "It was completely at odds with his kind and gentle spirit."
Burnley's Jay Rodriguez headed a goal in each half to send Nottingham Forest to a sixth straight defeat. Rodriguez opened the scoring with a close-range header from Kieran Trippier's cross after three minutes. Having missed a penalty, awarded for Garath McCleary's foul on Ben Mee, Rodriguez then headed his second from another Trippier cross. On-loan Wolves man Adlene Guedioura went closest for the hosts but fired straight at Burnley keeper Lee Camp. Rodriguez, given his first professional contract by Forest boss Steve Cotterill when he was in charge at Burnley, has now managed 16 goals in all competitions, while Forest - 23rd in the table - have not scored at the City Ground since 19 November. Nottingham Forest boss Steve Cotterill told BBC Radio Nottingham: "It's difficult times at the moment, very difficult times. It's very difficult when you have to have a makeshift back four, and to get off to that sort of start makes it an uphill battle. Media playback is not supported on this device "Jay Rodriguez is a young boy who I know very, very well, and he is very, very good in the box. "Now we've got a couple of loan signings we can bring in. One's a good young player and Danny Higginbotham will come in with good experience and good leadership skills. So the team's going to change around again. "We needed this two months ago but we didn't have the money. That's what's made it a prolonged and painful time." Live text commentary
Noel Gallagher is to be honoured with the godlike genius prize at this year's NME Awards. The former Oasis star follows acts like The Clash, Paul Weller and New Order in winning the gong. He picks up the award as Blur prepare to collect this year's outstanding contribution to music prize at the Brit Awards next month. Noel Gallagher, 44, already has the Brits title having won it in 2007 as a member of Oasis. The guitarist, who launched his solo career fronting The High Flying Birds in 2011, will pick up his prize at the NME Awards on 29 February at London's O2 Academy Brixton. "I would like to thank NME for bestowing upon me such a great accolade," said Noel Gallagher. "I have dreamt of this moment since I was 43 years old. "I accept that I am now a genius, just like God." Noel Gallagher wrote Oasis hits including chart-toppers Don't Look Back In Anger, Some Might Say and Go Let It Out. He quit the band in 2009 after falling out with brother Liam. His debut solo album made it to number one in the album chart. NME editor Krissi Murison said: "For the best part of two decades, the voice of one man has dominated the pages of NME more than any other. That man is Noel Gallagher. "Opinionated, intelligent, passionate and always hilarious - Noel walks and talks it better than any other musician out there, and it's just one of the reasons why the British public loves him so dearly. "No individual has written as many sing-out-loud classics as Noel. His songwriting has defined a generation."
Ex-Nottingham Forest boss Billy Davies says he has "unfinished business" at the club and would love to return. Davies, 47, led Forest to successive play-off campaigns while at the City Ground but had an uneasy relationship with the board and was sacked in June. When asked if he would go back to work for a new regime, Davies told BBC Late Kick Off: "I'd be delighted to go back. I have great feelings for the club. "I did want to get them to the Premier League. I'd love to finish that job." Forest have scored just 22 goals in 27 Championship games this season Forest, who have lost nine of their last 11 games, are third from bottom in the Championship and sit four points adrift of safety. Manager Steve Cotterill took over from Steve McClaren in October but, despite an initial upturn in form, the Reds have been in woeful form of late and have scored just four-goals in their last 11 matches. But Davies remains convinced they can turn things around: "I am sad to see what has happened," the former Preston and Derby boss added. "But I wish them well and have no doubt they will get out of their troubles. "The club deserve to be in the Premier League."
A paediatric unit at a hospital in North Yorkshire should close, according to an independent report. The National Clinical Advisory Team (NCAT) report said the unit at the Friarage Hospital in Northallerton was not sustainable. It said the service should be moved to the larger James Cook Hospital in Middlesbrough. A three-month-long public consultation will be held on the proposals from March this year. The Hambleton, Richmondshire and Whitby Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) said senior doctors at the Friarage had raised concerns about the long-term sustainability of some services. The CCG aims to take control of local NHS decision-making in 2013 and it decided to commission the report from NCAT. The 230-bed hospital serves 122,000 people and Dr Vicky Pleydell, from the Hambleton, Richmondshire and Whitby CCG, said as a smaller hospital it faced a number of challenges. She said: "I must stress that this is not about saving money but more about using the available money to invest in good quality and safe services that can stand up for years to come." The report said the hospital provided a first-class service but in relation to paediatric services it expressed concerns about the hospital being able to maintain a workforce with the right skills. It also said if children needed inpatient care, they should be cared for in a unit which has a full range of services backed up by high dependency and intensive care facilities. A scaling-back of maternity services was also included in the recommendations. The report will be considered by NHS North Yorkshire and York, the CCG and the South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, which runs both the Friarage and James Cook hospitals. A three-month public consultation about any proposed service changes will begin in March.
The Health and Safety Executive for NI (HSENI) is launching an initiative to try and cut farm deaths. A farmer was killed every month in 2011 while working on a farm in Northern Ireland. In February and March, HSENI staff will visit farms and speak directly to farmers and their families about their safety. The average age of farmers killed in accidents last year was 57. The four main causes of farm deaths in Northern Ireland are unguarded machinery, handling livestock, falls when carrying out work at heights and incidents involving slurry tanks. The HSENI is working with the Ulster Farmers' Union (UFU) and the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) to develop a new Farm Safety Partnership. Addressing farmers, Ken Logan, of the HSENI, said: "HSENI staff will be visiting your farm in order to discuss the dangers that you and your families face on a daily basis. "Given that most Northern Ireland farms are worked by one or two people, this is a very personal message to you. "Safety must be your number one priority as it is likely to be you or another family member who gets injured or killed. "This help initiative will provide you with an opportunity to ask questions and seek advice from my colleagues."
Ireland's justice minister has published proposals aimed at reforming the country's tough bankruptcy laws. They include reducing the period of bankruptcy to three years from the current 12 years. The reform of personal insolvency laws is a response to some of the problems thrown up by the country's banking and property crash. High profile property developers and individual home owners have been saddled with huge, unpayable debts. In many countries the solution for these people is to declare bankruptcy and then try to make a fresh start. In the UK, the period of bankruptcy typically lasts for a year, after which former bankrupts can regain their financial freedom. However the long bankruptcy period in the Republic makes it an unattractive option - in 2010 just 30 people were declared bankrupt. "Bankruptcy tourism" is also becoming an issue with Irish people declaring bankruptcy in the UK. At least four major property developers have gone down this path. Ireland's former richest man Sean Quinn also declared bankruptcy in Northern Ireland, a decision which was later overturned by the High Court in Belfast. He was then bankrupted in Dublin. Making the announcement the Minister Alan Shatter said: "The bill will radically reform our insolvency legislation and, in particular, will assist those in unexpected difficulties as a result of the current fiscal, economic and employment conditions. "When enacted, this legislation will be one of the key legislative instruments for addressing the financial difficulties of general insolvency, mortgage debt and negative equity."
Outsourcing company Capita has confirmed it is to create a further 40 jobs at its call centre in Moray. The new roles come on top of 100 jobs announced by the company in November, as they expand their operations in Forres. The latest posts range from customer services to senior management positions. Capita said in a statement it hoped to have all the new staff on board by the spring. Capita Scotland chief executive Steve Langmead said: "The 140 new roles will mean that Capita now employ 300 people in Moray and over 500 in the north of Scotland. "The high quality of people available in the north of Scotland, coupled with the excellent support we receive from the Scottish government, is making this a very attractive area for continued expansion." Fears about employment in Moray were raised in July last year when RAF Kinloss stopped functioning as an airbase. Following the UK government's Strategic Defence and Security Review, the base is to become an army barracks. SNP Moray MP Angus Robertson said Capita's commitment to Forres was "extremely important" for the local economy, especially given the major reduction in forces personnel at Kinloss. Capita employs more than 4,000 people in Scotland in a wide range of businesses, including life and pensions administration, property consultancy, IT services, recruitment and occupational health services.
Mobile phone giant Nokia has reported a loss for the final three months of last year, as sales of mobile devices fell sharply. The firm made loss after tax of 1.08bn euros ($1.4bn; Â£905m). Net sales fell 21% on a year earlier to 10bn euros. Net sales of mobile phones were down by a quarter. In October, Nokia launched its first two Windows-based smartphones which it hopes will help it gain ground on Apple and Android-based competitors. "The fourth quarter of 2011 marked a significant step in Nokia's transformation," said chief executive Stephen Elop. "Overall, we are pleased with the performance of our mobile phones business." The former market-leader in mobile phones has lost out to the iPhone and other smartphones that use Google's Android operating system. To try to catch up, it decided to dump its legacy Symbian software in favour of Microsoft for its new range of smartphones. It launched the Lumia 800 and Lumia 710 models in October in a number of markets in Europe and Asia, and earlier this month re-entered the US market. It has now sold more than one million Lumias. Nokia said it would be launching the new smartphone models in China and Latin America in the first half of this year. The company said 2012 would continue to be a "year of transition" so it would not be giving any sales or profits forecasts. On Wednesday, Nokia said it had sold its 1.5 billionth mobile phone based on its S40 operating system. It estimated there are currently 675 million active owners of S40 phones in the world, and said it is currently selling about 12 phones of the S40 family every second.
Morrisons, which owns the Kiddicare brand, is buying 10 former Best Buy stores to expand the childcare products chain. The supermarket bought Kiddicare, which is best best-known as an internet retailer, last year for Â£70m. Morrisons will spend Â£15m converting the outlets and says it will create 700 jobs as part of its plan to give the chain a physical retail presence. Kiddicare currently only runs one store, which is in Peterborough. It is the largest children's outlet in Europe. The new outlets will offer drive-in services such as children's car seat-fitting. Kiddicare chief executive Scott Weavers-Wright said: "These 10 flagship stores will put Kiddicare within easy driving distance of nearly a third of the UK population." Kiddicare's main rival, Mothercare, has been struggling to reverse falling sales. The purchase leaves just one Best Buy store - the one in Derby. The chain was brought to the UK through a joint venture between its US parent and Carphone Warehouse. They were intended to shake up electrical retailing, but were closed this month. Kiddicare said that although the acquisition would create 700 jobs, it would not be taking on the 1,100 former Best Buy workers, who are understood to have taken other roles within Carphone Warehouse. Morrisons plans to start opening the new stores in Merry Hill, Aintree, Rotherham, Nottingham, Thurrock, Hedge End, Croydon, Hayes, Bristol and Enfield by the autumn.
Police in the Democratic Republic of Congo have fired tear gas to disperse supporters of the opposition leader, Etienne Tshisekedi, in the capital, Kinshasa. Mr Tshisekedi was urging his supporters to accompany him to the presidential palace. He declared himself president after refusing to accept last year's elections results. A BBC correspondent says Mr Tshisekedi was prevented from leaving his home. Incumbent Joseph Kabila was declared the winner in November's elections, but Mr Tshisekedi says he was a victim of fraud - and duly held his own 'swearing-in' process. On Thursday, he and his Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS) supporters tried to march to the president's office so he could take up his "active functions". They were blocked by police - who shut down several streets in the Limete district of Kinshasa where the veteran opposition leader lives and used tear gas on the UDPS supporters who turned up to make the journey to the presidential palace. Profiles of Tshisekedi and Kabila The BBC's Thomas Hubert in Kinshasa says that police also barred access to journalists and briefly detained reporters from the AFP news agency. Our correspondent says it appears as if Mr Tshisekedi is under unofficial house arrest. Last November's elections were the first Congolese-organised polls since the end of a devastating war in 2003, which left some four million people dead. The poll was heavily criticised by foreign observers, the opposition and Catholic bishops - who complained in a statement of "treachery, lies and terror" and called on the election commission to correct "serious errors".
A Lincolnshire beauty spot is being cleared of undergrowth after residents complained it was being used for sex. People said the "dogging" at Stapleford Woods, south of Lincoln, was forcing ramblers and families to avoid the area. Lincolnshire Police said it had increased patrols of the site after the complaints. Council officials are carrying out a day of action at the site and ex-offenders are clearing up. Jenny Milan, from Stapleford Parish Meeting, said something needed to be done. "I've been down there two or three times and it's really not very nice. "Our village is a beautiful village and we don't want to accept this behaviour," she said. Councillor Richard Wright, from North Kevesten District Council, said the authority would continue to work to stop the issues. "We're going to be working with the Forestry Commission to clear litter and clear some of the vegetation to give a better view into the woods. "This is the first day of three that the community payback teams will be there but in the long term we are looking at this as a multi-agency operation," he said. Insp Mick Jones, from Lincolnshire Police, said it was important to make the public feel safe walking in the woods. "We need to cut down the anti-social behaviour and cut down the fly-tipping," he said. "Everybody has got it marked up as an area to patrol. Officers will be patrolling the area, periodically, every day."
Veteran actor John Hurt will receive the outstanding contribution to cinema award at the Baftas next month, it has been announced. "I know that film means a great deal to me but I had no idea that I meant so much to film," the 72-year-old said. Bafta chairman Tim Corrie said the actor has an "extraordinary screen presence" and brings "utter conviction to every role he undertakes". His film credits include The Elephant Man and Nineteen Eighty-Four. In 1976 he was presented with his first Bafta award for  his role as Quentin Crisp in the TV drama The Naked Civil Servant. Since then he has received a further two more trophies for Midnight Express and The Elephant Man, while earning further nominations for Alien, The Field and, most recently, TV's An Englishman in New York in 2009. He has also been nominated for two Academy Awards, for The Elephant Man and Midnight Express. Recent screen roles have included Ollivander in the Harry Potter series and a role in the Oscar-nominated film, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy. Mr Corrie added: "He is one of a kind, an iconic figure, and Bafta is delighted to take this opportunity to honour his outstanding contribution to cinema." Silent movie The Artist leads this year's Baftas with 12 nominations, including best film and best director. British Cold War-era spy movie Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy is close behind with 11 nominations. The Bafta awards take place on 12 February in London. The ceremony will be hosted by comedian and broadcaster Stephen Fry and will be broadcast on BBC One.
British actress Kate Winslet is to receive an honorary Cesar award at France's equivalent of the Oscars next month, it has been announced. Roman Polanski, who directed the 36-year-old in recent release Carnage, will present her with the prize. French drama Poliss, written, directed by and starring Maiwenn lead the shortlist with 13 nods, including best film and director. The Minister picked up 11 nods and silent film The Artist was up for 10. The French silent film, which is one of the leading contenders at this year's Academy Awards, was re-released in France on Wednesday. "Don't forget that the Cesar awards were created in homage to the Oscars," French Film Academy president Alain Terzian told The Hollywood Reporter. He added that the Cesars symbolically take place in the same weekend as the Oscars. "It's an homage I want to permanently pay," said Mr Terzian. He said they are expecting The Artist stars Jean Dujardin and Berenice Bejo, both up for Cesar acting prizes, to attend the French ceremony, before flying to the US for the Oscars. The Artist and Poliss will compete alongside The Minister, Declaration of War, Le Havre and Untouchable in the best film category. Poliss, about a police child protection unit, was presented with the jury prize at last May's Cannes Film Festival. British film The King's Speech received a nomination in the best foreign film category, and was joined by Black Swan, Drive, The Kid With The Bike, Melancholia and Iranian Oscar hopeful A Separation. French actor-director Guillaume Canet will preside over the annual awards in Paris on 24 February.
A host of international authors - including seven Nobel laureates - have called for an end to attacks on journalists in Mexico. The writers took out a full page advert in Mexican newspaper El Universal to defend the right of all journalists to be free from fear and censorship. The statement by the PEN International writers group was signed by 170 of the world's most acclaimed authors. PEN says 67 journalists have been murdered in Mexico since 2000. Among those signing the declaration "to the journalists and writers of Mexico" were Nobel laureates JM Coetzee, Nadine Gordimer, Toni Morrison, Orhan Pamuk, Wole Soyinka, Mario Vargas Llosa and Derek Walcott. Other famous signatories included Chinua Achebe, Margaret Atwood, Ariel Dorfman and Salman Rushdie. "We, writers from around the world, stand with you and all Mexican citizens who are calling for the killing, the impunity, the intimidation to stop," the newspaper advert said. "These violations diminish us all and threaten the right of Mexican citizens to live lives both safe and free from censorship," it went on. "We call on your government to apprehend and prosecute all who have silenced your colleagues and seek to silence you". Mexico is considered one of the most dangerous countries in the world for journalists. The majority of the killings have been linked to organised criminal gangs, with journalists targeted because of their coverage of drug-trafficking. There is also widespread intimidation, and some media practice self-censorship to protect their staff.
More than 100 Occupy protesters have been arrested in the US city of Oakland after trying to enter the City Hall and a convention centre. Police fired tear gas and smoke grenades to disperse crowds who threw rocks, bottles and other objects. The Californian port city was the scene of similar clashes last October. In December, protesters occupied the port. Oakland is one of several US cities to see mass protests over economic inequality and corporate greed. The movement began with Occupy Wall Street in New York last year and has since spread. The local offshoot, Occupy Oakland, had earlier called on protesters to join a weekend of action, saying 28 January would be "Move-in Day", and they would "occupy a large, vacant building and convert it into a social center". The protest march - joined by as many as 2,000 people over the course of the day - moved first to the empty Henry Kaiser convention centre, police said. Some started tearing down perimeter fencing and "destroying construction equipment", the Associated Press quotes the police as saying. When protesters ignored an order to leave, they were dispersed using tear gas and smoke, police added. In response, officers were pelted with bottles, rocks, burning flames and other objects. Demonstrators also broke into City Hall and a nearby YMCA building in the centre of Oakland, police said. One post on Occupy Oakland's Twitter feed later read: "We didn't get in the building, but fought like our future depended on it." Oakland police said in a statement that, while the city "welcomes peaceful forms of assembly and freedom of speech... acts of violence, property destruction and overnight lodging will not be tolerated".
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has warned that he could nationalise banks that refuse to finance agricultural projects backed by his government. Mr Chavez said some leading banks were failing to comply with a legal requirement that at least 10% of their lending should support development. "If you can't do it, give me the banks," he said. The government has taken over several private banks in recent years over alleged irregularities. Mr Chavez was speaking during his weekly radio and television programme, which was broadcast from Barinas state in Venezuela's central plains, an important farming and cattle-ranching region. He named three banks in particular - Banesco, Banco Mercantil and Banco Provincial - and accused them of favouring loans to large landowners and businesses rather than small farmers. "Banks of Venezuela, private and public, either you finance agricultural production or we will take measures. There is no alternative," he said. "We will pay the owners what the banks cost and in two years we will recover the investment," he added. Mr Chavez also said he would step up the expropriation of large estates to give land to small farmers. The process of agricultural reform has given many of Venezuela's rural poor the chance to farm for themselves for the first time. But critics - including large ranchers and farmers who have lost their land - say production has suffered as a result, putting pressure on food supplies and prices. Mr Chavez - who has governed Venezuela for 13 years - is seeking re-election in October in order to deepen the socialist "revolution" in Venezuela.
The Japanese population is expected to shrink by one third in the next half century, a government report says. The Health and Welfare ministry estimates that 40% of the population will be of retirement age by 2060. It says that life expectancy - already one of the highest in the world - will continue to rise. Correspondents say the report presents a grim picture for Japan at a time when it urgently needs to overhaul its social security and tax systems. Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda has pledged to push through a reform programme this year. But his political opponents say his plan requires higher taxes than are currently proposed. The government report says that by 2060, Japan will have 87 million people, down from today's 128 million. The proportion aged 65 or older is expected to double to 40%. At the same time the national workforce - comprising people aged between 15 to 65 - will shrink to about half of the total population, estimates released by the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research say. The research says that Japan's population will keep declining by one million people every year in coming decades. The research also suggests that the average life expectancy will have risen by more than four years by 2060 to 84.19 for men and 90.93 for women. The population estimate is compiled about once every five years and is based on demographic data used by the government when formulating its social security policy.
A vote to choose a new chairman for the secretariat of the African Union has ended in deadlock - despite three rounds of voting. No clear winner emerged between incumbent Jean Ping, of Gabon, and South Africa's Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. The vote has now been deferred until the next AU summit in Malawi in July. A BBC correspondent says Mr Ping will now remain in office until then. Earlier reports had stated that deputy chairman Erastus Mwencha of Kenya would take over the post until fresh elections. Mrs Zuma, the former wife of President Jacob Zuma and one of South Africa's longest-serving government ministers, was challenging to become the first woman to head the 54-nation bloc's executive council. Mr Ping, who has been the chairman of the African Union Commission since 2008, was running for a second term. The BBC's Noel Mwakugu in Addis Ababa says Mr Ping was challenged after coming under immense criticism from African leaders for the way in which he responded to the Libyan crisis. Our correspondent says there are behind-the-scene mutterings that Mr Ping was not fully behind an African Union ceasefire plan and the mediation mission led by President Zuma of South Africa. Both Nato and Libya's then rebels rejected the AU plan, on the grounds it did not call on Mr Gaddafi to step down. It is the first summit since the death of Libya's Colonel Gaddafi, who played a key role in the formation of the African Union. Delegates are meeting over the next two days in the new $200m (Â£127m) AU headquarters, funded and built by China, which was officially opened on Saturday.
A Norwegian court has convicted two men of planning to attack Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten after it printed cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad. The convictions were the first under Norway's anti-terrorism legislation. Mikael Davud, a Norwegian from China's ethnic Uighur minority who had links to al-Qaeda, was jailed for seven years. An Iraqi Kurd, Shawan Sadek Saeed Bujak, was given three-and-a-half years. Another man, David Jakobsen, was cleared of terror charges. The judge said that Davud "had planned the attack together with al-Qaeda". The three men, arrested in July 2010, had denied the charges, although Davud had admitted he was planning to attack Chinese interests in Norway because of the treatment of ethnic Uighurs. During the trial, prosecutors said that Davud had learned about explosives at an al-Qaeda camp in Pakistan and, together with Bujak, had planned to use them against the Danish newspaper. It was also claimed they had intended to kill Kurt Westergaard, who drew some of the cartoons. Bujak admitted his hatred for the cartoonist but said he and Davud had gone no further than discussing the possibility of punishing Kurt Westergaard and the newspaper. Jakobsen was found guilty of helping the other two get hold of explosives, but cleared of terror charges. He said that after he had bought the chemical hydrogen peroxide from an Oslo pharmacy, he alerted Norway's Police Security Service (PST) in November 2009. He was given a four-month sentence, but was freed immediately because of time already served.
Cardiff City have signed Wycombe Wanderers winger Kadeem Harris for an undisclosed fee. The 18-year-old has established himself in the Wycombe team this season, making 17 appearances in League One. Harris, who has signed a three-and-a-half year contract, won League Two's apprentice of the year award for the 2010-11 season. "It's a good deal for all parties," Wycombe manager Gary Waddock told the club's website. Cardiff manager Malky Mackay has made signing a winger a priority in the January transfer window. He has failed in his attempts to prize Craig Noone from Brighton, while a bid for Blackpool's wide man Matt Phillips has also been rejected. Harris broke the record as Wycombe's youngest player when he made his debut in 2009, aged 16 years and 201 days. That record has subsequently been taken from him by Jordan Ibe in 2011, who was 15 years and 244 days when he featured in a Carling Cup tie. Striker Ibe, now 16, joined Liverpool earlier in the January transfer window. Waddock added: "Like Jordon Ibe recently, we didn't want to stand in the way of Kadeem and the opportunity for him to play at a higher level. "I've thoroughly enjoyed working with Kadeem during my time at the club and I wish him every success for the future."
Hollywood's remake of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is unlikely to screen in India after local censors called for the removal of "explicit" scenes. Indian censor official JP Singh said they had objected to some scenes in the film and "wanted them to be blurred". Sony Pictures in India said in a statement quoted by the AFP news agency that it would not compromise on the content of the film. The David Fincher film stars Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara. It is based on Stieg Larsson's best-selling thriller which tells a story of murder, corruption and family secrets, and contains some sex scenes. "Bare bottom and bare-breast scenes are not allowed in India," Mr Singh, an official at India's Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) said. "We objected to several scenes in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and wanted them to be blurred." Sony Pictures in India said that the censors had "adjudged the film unsuitable for public viewing in its unaltered form". "And while we are committed to maintaining and protecting the vision of the director, we will, as always, respect the guidelines set by the board," the statement added. More than 1,500 foreign films, mostly Hollywood, are released in India every year after clearing the country's censors.
Santander has revealed a 35% fall in annual profits after the group took extra provisions for deteriorating real estate assets in Spain. The bank announced a net profit of 5.35bn euros ($7.05bn; £4.48bn) for 2011, down from 8.18bn euros in 2010. It said it had made a 1.8bn euro provision against property exposure in Spain and had written off 600m euros relating to its businesses in Portugal. Spain has struggled since its property bubble burst in 2008. Banks took on land holdings from bankrupt developers, but have struggled to offload most of their property assets. Economy minister Luis de Guindos has said new provisions to cover losses on real estate assets could cost Spanish banks up to 50bn euros. Santander is better-placed than other Spanish banks to absorb greater provisions as it has thriving businesses outside its home market. Group revenues increased by 5% to 44.3bn euros. Santander also reiterated that it had already achieved the 9% core capital ratio required by the European Banking Authority, six months ahead of schedule. The provisions were made in the fourth quarter, meaning that its profit for the last three months of 2011 fell 98% to 47m euros from 2.1bn euros in the last quarter of 2010. In the UK, pre-tax profit for the year fell 42% to 1.57bn euros (£1.32bn), after the bank put aside £538m post-tax for compensating customers who were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
West Ham United have signed Manchester United's Ravel Morrison for an undisclosed fee. The 18-year-old midfielder, who has signed a three-and-a-half-year deal, was the subject of a rejected bid from Newcastle United earlier in the month. BBC Sport understands the deal does not include a buy-back option. The highly-rated youngster, whose Old Trafford contract would have run out this summer, was part of United's FA Youth Cup winning side last year. But United boss Sir Alex Ferguson recently branded Morrison's contract demands as "unrealistic". Ferguson handed the Wythenshawe-born player his senior debut in the Carling Cup in 2010 against Wolves, but the youngster has also had a chequered history off the pitch. Two days after winning the 2011 FA Cup Youth final, the 18-year-old was fined £600 by a court for throwing his girlfriend's mobile phone through a window during an argument. And Ferguson is hoping a change of scenery will help Morrison put his off-field problems behind him. "In the case of Ravel it's been quite well documented," said Ferguson. "I think he's better out of Manchester. "He's got a great talent but it's how to deal with it that is important." Morrison told the Hammers website: "I'm really pleased to have signed. The move has happened very quickly and I'm looking forward to hopefully moving up to the Premier League with West Ham soon. "I'm an attacking player and I'm hoping to get the fans on their feet."
A waste company has been ordered to stop dumping rubbish next to the M62 in East Yorkshire after it failed to reduce the height of the tip. The site near Gilberdyke had grown to more than double its permitted height of 14m (46ft). The Environment Agency (EA) served a third enforcement notice to City Plant Ltd following two orders last year to reduce the amount of rubbish. Residents had called for the agency and local authority to take action. The third notice bans the firm from taking waste to the towering rubbish tip and will come into force from 13 February. It was issued by the EA after City Plant Ltd failed to comply with one of the two orders served in November. Environment Agency regulatory officer Matthew Woollin said: "It's important that we control the amount of waste at the site because we issue the permit based on a set figure to protect the environment. "We understand the community's concerns and we are working hard to resolve this issue." Neighbours said the smell from the tip had become unbearable and was affecting house sales. Local resident Kevin Clifford said the tip was getting "higher and higher" and attracting vermin. He said he had witnessed up to 100 wagons a day driving through the village "spreading litter, dirt and muck". City Plant Ltd has yet to comment.
A Lincolnshire coastal town is to feature in a national television advertising campaign, celebrating what Britain has to offer tourists. Tourist board Visit England will be launching an advert to showcase areas of the country, including Skegness, where people would like to visit. East Lindsey District Council said extra visitors would boost the economy. The commercial would run between March and June on the back of forthcoming events such as the Olympic Games. A celebrity-led 60 second commercial, promoting special deals across Britain, will be supported by a series of adverts focusing on specific destinations of which Skegness is one. Councillor Craig Leyland, portfolio holder for the economy for the district council, said: "We need to raise the profile of our district and encourage more people to visit our area for the benefit of our economy and this campaign, coupled with our connections to London 2012, will help do just that. "We must embrace 2012 and the opportunities it provides to promote our area and the excellent events we have planned through East Lindsey Live and SO Festival, plus the Olympic Torch Relay on June 27." The advert would also run on the back of other events this year including the Queen's Diamond Jubilee and The Torch Relay. Skegness attracts over four million visitors each year, generating over Â£450m for the local economy.
Crime thrillers are the most borrowed books from British libraries. Novels by authors such as James Patterson and Lee Child dominate the top 10 most borrowed books, with Dan Brown's The Lost Symbol in top spot. Patterson remains the most borrowed author for the fifth year running, with five books written, or co-written, by the prolific US author, in the top 10. Author Lee Child claims crime fiction gratifies "a desire for safety and security and the rule of law". "In the decade following 9/11, I believe crime fiction has become more important in people's lives," Child told the Public Lending Right (PLR), who compile the annual data. "It gratifies their desire for safety and security and the rule of law, because at the end of crime novels, order is restored." "In US crime fiction and thrillers, the canvas is bigger, and the stakes are higher, making them particularly successful in this context." British-born Child, who has two books in the most borrowed list, currently lives in the US. Writer Ian Rankin is the only UK-resident author in the Top 10. The data comes in sharp contrast to the charts from a decade ago, which saw British romance novelist Catherine Cookson dominate the list of most borrowed books, with five novels in the top 10. Patterson - whose novels Kiss The Girls and Along Came A Spider were both made into films - is the only author to record more than two million loans in UK libraries between July 2010 and June 2011.
China's largest province Xinjiang is bordered by eight countries including the former Soviet Central Asian republics, Mongolia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. The region experienced a brief period of independence in the 1940s but China regained control after the Communists took power in 1949. It is home to the Turkic-speaking Muslim Uighur minority who make up about 8 million of the province's 19 million people. Rich in natural resources, economic development in the region has been accompanied by large-scale immigration of Han Chinese. Many Uighurs complain of discrimination and marginalisation by the Chinese authorities. Anti-Han and separatist sentiment has become more prevalent since the 1990s, flaring into violence on occasion. Population 21.8 million Area 1,660,000 sq km (640,930 sq miles) Major language Chinese, Uighur Major religion Islam Life expectancy 71 (men), 71 (women) Xinjiang's media are tightly controlled by the local Communist Party and government. The Urumqi People's Broadcasting Station and the Xinjiang People's Broadcasting Station run radio and television broadcasts in Chinese, Uighur and minority languages. Major state-run newspapers include the Chinese-language Xinjiang Economic Daily. The authorities imposed a months-long shutdown of internet access in Xinjiang following the violent unrest in July 2009. Bloggers, netizens and website managers were "singled out for repression", Reporters Without Borders said.
Bus workers in York facing redundancy following service changes are not being offered a "fair deal" according to their trade union. Bus company First York has confirmed it will be withdrawing its ftr buses from service in April. Unite said the change would mean 29 job losses and that the company should offer workers better redundancy terms. First York said it was still consulting employees and the union over the removal of the ftr service. The large bendy buses employ both conductors and drivers and were introduced in York in 2006. First York is planning to replace the ftr with double-decker buses following a review of passenger growth prospects in the city. Unite said the decision would save First York more than Â£300,000 a year but it was only offering workers statutory redundancy terms. Harriet Eisner, regional officer with Unite, said: "These workers are the face of First buses in York and they deserve a fair deal. "The company should do everything possible to find them alternative work or pay them a redundancy settlement which recognises the contribution they have made to the company." First York said it was currently in a formal consultation over the removal of the ftr buses in York and had no further comment.
Cuban dissident blogger Yoani Sanchez says she has again been denied permission to leave Cuba. Ms Sanchez said it was the 19th time the government had turned down her request to be allowed to travel abroad. Ms Sanchez writes a popular blog with a wide international following in which she is often very critical of the Communist authorities in Cuba. She had been granted a visa to Brazil, which had raised her hopes the Cuban government would allow her to travel. "There are no surprises," Ms Sanchez tweeted. "It is occasion number 19 in which they have violated my right to enter and leave the country," she wrote. The Brazilian government issued a visa to Ms Sanchez in January to allow her to visit Brazil for the premiere of a documentary about media freedom in Cuba. Cuban dissidents had hoped the move would put pressure on the Cuban authorities to allow Ms Sanchez to travel abroad. Cubans must obtain the government's permission to leave the country and have to go through an elaborate process to get it. In 2009, Ms Sanchez was denied an exit visa to travel to New York to receive a top journalism prize for her Generacion Y blog.. Ms Sanchez and her blog have been given international recognition for highlighting issues affecting young Cubans on the communist-run island.
The relatives of those killed in a loyalist gun attack at a Belfast betting shop have published a booklet in a bid for fresh information. Five people were murdered and seven were injured in the atrocity at Sean Graham's bookmakers on the Ormeau Road in February 1992. On Sunday, more than 300 people attended the scene to witness a new memorial stone being unveiled. Sinn Fein MLA Alex Maskey said the relatives were seeking the truth. "The families have launched this report and in it they have outlined all of the evidence which has been brought to date so far, but has never been brought before all under the one booklet," he said. "It has never been dealt with by the police or the prosecution service in a holistic way and consequently these families have been left with no justice over the 20 years. "This report is calling on all of those those who were involved or have knowledge of it to come forward, more importantly they want to get the full truth as to what happened on 5 February 1992." A 15-year-old schoolboy, James Kennedy, was the youngest victim of the UFF shootings. No-one has been convicted in relation to the killings.
Widnes have rejected concerns raised about the safety of their artificial pitch following Friday night's Super League opener against Wakefield. The "iPitch" at the Stobart Stadium was criticised by former Warrington full-back Richie Mathers, who posted images of grazes to his body on Twitter. He described the surface, on which his side won 32-14, as an "absolute joke". But Widnes claim that Mathers' injuries are more likely the result of the icy conditions the match was played in. The club's chief executive, Julie Gaskell, stated: "We had four games on the pitch this weekend and you have to bear in mind the extreme weather. On Friday night, it went down to minus seven. We are happy for Widnes to continue using the iPitch "The injuries are consistent with those on any surface in those temperatures. We noted there were similar injuries from the game at Salford on Saturday. "Our players have been training on a similar surface for the last nine months and there have been no issues. I am sure any problems would have shown up. "We have also had five-a-side football and boys and girls tag rugby on the pitch over the last four weeks and again we have had no reported injuries." The Rugby Football League say their match commissioner had no concerns about the surface, which is the first artificial pitch ever to be used in the sport. "We are happy for Widnes to continue using the iPitch," said RFL spokesman John Ledger. "The indications are that it posed no more danger to players than on any other surface over the weekend. We believe the extreme weather may have been an issue."
The government has rejected calls for computer pioneer Alan Turing to be granted an official pardon for convictions for homosexuality dating back to the 1950s. An online petition of over 23,000 signatures had requested the pardon. Justice Minister Lord McNally dismissed the motion in the House of Lords. "A posthumous pardon was not considered appropriate as Alan Turing was properly convicted of what at the time was a criminal offence," he said. In 2009 former Prime Minister Gordon Brown issued an official apology to Mr Turing, labelling the treatment he had received as "utterly unfair" and "appalling". Mr Turing was one of the key members of the staff at Bletchley Park that worked to crack Germany's Enigma codes, and Lord McNally acknowledged that in light of this work he had been treated harshly by the authorities. "It is tragic that Alan Turing was convicted of an offence which now seems both cruel and absurd, particularly... given his outstanding contribution to the war effort," he said. "However, the law at the time required a prosecution and, as such, long-standing policy has been to accept that such convictions took place and, rather than trying to alter the historical context and to put right what cannot be put right, ensure instead that we never again return to those times." Mr Turing committed suicide in 1954, two years after his conviction. 2012 marks the centenary of his birth. The occasion is being marked by a series of events around the world including a commemorative postage stamp issued by Royal Mail.
The company that owns the KFC fast food chain has again reported solid growth figures fuelled by demand in China. Yum! Brands has reported better-than-expected profits for the fourth quarter of 2011, jumping 30% from the same period last year. Net income for the three months ending in December was $356m (£225m). The company says the Chinese market is crucial to its success. "We opened a record 656 new restaurants and delivered extraordinary same-store sales growth of 19%," said David C. Novak, chairman and CEO of Yum! Brands. "Clearly our KFC and Pizza Hut brands in China continued to strengthen their category-leading positions." Yum! Brands also owns the Taco Bell restaurant chain, which serves Mexican style food. The company's sharp profit rise was tempered by an increase in food and labour costs in China. Revenue from Yum's restaurants in China fell 2.4% to 19.7% in the last quarter from the year before, due to wage inflation of 20% and an 8% rise in commodity prices. According to Yum's profit statement, the firm based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest restaurant company with over 37,000 restaurants. Outside of the United States, Yum says it opens approximately four new restaurants each day.
Lord Heseltine is being considered for the honour of freedom of the city of Liverpool. Heseltine, who became known as Minister for Merseyside, lobbied for Merseyside in the wake of the 1981 Toxteth riots. The 78-year-old said he was "deeply appreciative" of being put forward for the city's highest honour. Leader of Liverpool City Council Joe Anderson said Lord Heseltine would be a "worthy recipient of the freedom of the city". Lord Heseltine said: "It has been a rare privilege to have been so closely associated with one of England's great cities for over thirty years. "To have witnessed the transformation in the city's fortunes over that time is reward enough but I am deeply appreciative of the signal honour that the offer of the Freedom of the City represents." Mr Anderson said Lord Heseltine had been "a great friend of Liverpool" for many years. "The renaissance of the city started with the transformation of the Albert Dock and the International Garden Festival which he was largely responsible for bringing about as Minister for Merseyside. "He has played an important role in the regeneration of Liverpool over the past three decades. "He has worked with me to push the government hard to win new powers and substantial extra investment for our future regeneration plans which are now set to transform the face of Liverpool." Labour-run Liverpool City Council will vote on making him a freeman of the city at a meeting to be confirmed in March. If the council is in agreement, he will officially receive the title at a civic reception in May.
The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or CNMI, is a chain of 14 islands in the north-west Pacific. A self-governing commonwealth of the United States since 1976, the islands lie just 1,500 miles south of the Japanese coast. Those born on the islands are US citizens but not eligible to vote in US presidential elections. The territory receives millions of dollars in aid from Washington. Most of the population live on the island of Saipan and only four other islands are populated. Native Micronesians outnumber the indigenous Chamorro and Carolinian populations. Population 63,500 Area 457 sq km (176 sq miles) Major languages English, Chamarro, Carolinian Major religion Christianity Life expectancy 74 years (men), 80 years (women) Currency US dollar Head of State: Barack Obama Head of government: Ralph Torres Ralph Torres was sworn in as governor of the Northern Marianas in December 2015 following the sudden death of his predecessor Eloy Inos. At 36, he became the youngest governor in Northern Marianas history. During his inaugural speech, Mr Torres pledged "to do what's right". The Northern Marianas government has sought to rebuild public trust since former governor Benigno Fitial was convicted of corruption in 2015. Broadcasting is regulated by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
The family of a record-holding veteran cyclist killed in a road crash said he died doing what he loved best. Kenneth Edward Usher, 77, was riding his trike in the Lincolnshire village of Whaplode Drove when he was in a crash with a Suzuki Wagon. Mr Usher, from Crowland, had been a member of cycling clubs which met in areas including Spalding, Peterborough, Cambridge and Icknield. Police are appealing for witnesses to the crash which happened on 3 February. In a statement Mr Usher's family said: "It is with the greatest sadness that our father and husband was tragically killed on his trike in an accident. "Cycling was his life and in his 77 years he held a few good records, including the Mersey 24-Hour. "He died doing what he loved best and is sorely missed by wife, Gladys, son, Paul, and daughter, Jayne. "We would like to thank everyone for their support and comfort at this sad time." Mr Usher's family said he started in the Crouch Hill Cycling Club and joined many others, including the Witham Wheelers and BEC Cycling Club. He died at the scene of the crash, which happened in Broadgate shortly before 13:00 GMT. The driver of the car, an 80-year-old Spalding man, was uninjured.
Valentine's Day, or St Valentine's Day, is celebrated every year on 14 February. It's the day when people show their affection for another person or people by sending cards, flowers or chocolates with messages of love. And traditionally on Valentine's Day in a leap year - every four years - women can propose marriage to their partner! The day gets its name from a famous saint, but there are several stories of who he was. The popular belief about St Valentine is that he was a priest from Rome in the third century AD. Emperor Claudius II had banned marriage because he thought married men were bad soldiers. Valentine felt this was unfair, so he broke the rules and arranged marriages in secret. When Claudius found out, Valentine was thrown in jail and sentenced to death. There, he fell in love with the jailer's daughter and when he was taken to be killed on 14 February he sent her a love letter signed "from your Valentine". Valentine's Day is a very old tradition, thought to have originated from a Roman festival. The Romans had a festival called Lupercalia in the middle of February, officially the start of their springtime. It's thought that as part of the celebrations, boys drew names of girls from a box. They'd be boyfriend and girlfriend during the festival and sometimes they'd get married. Later on, the church wanted to turn this festival into a Christian celebration and decided to use it to remember St Valentine too. Gradually, St Valentine's name started to be used by people to express their feelings to those they loved.
A three-year investigation into cockle deaths off Gower in south-west Wales concluded pollution was not to blame. The study, led by Hull University, blames parasites, overcrowding and conditioning of cockles after spawning. The Welsh government launched the inquiry after a series of mortalities in the Burry Inlet which have damaged the shellfish industry since 2002. Environment Agency Wales says a management plan will be drawn up to limit the problem in future. Chris Mills, director of the agency, said: "This report is another step in the effort to re-establish the Burry Inlet cockle fishery as a sustainable and viable industry for the people who fish here - but at the same time protect cockles for the important bird life in this special area of conservation." Environment minister John Griffiths said it was an emotive issue and it was "positive" that there was no evidence to link water quality to the cockle deaths. "The Welsh government will now consider the findings of the report in full and will work closely with Environment Agency Wales and local communities to ensure the ongoing and sustainable management of the cockle beds," he said. An interim study had previously found no evidence to link the cockle deaths with pollution. But Haydn Hughes, chairman of the Burry Inlet Hand Gatherers' Association, is not convinced by the report. He said: "We've known for a few months now that with this report it's inconclusive." He added that water quality was a "big issue" and he called for an investigation into what went into the water. "From what I can gather at the moment, the water authority are hoping to spend Â£600m to rectify the problems which are being put into the estuary at the moment."
A cancer research centre has been given the Freedom of the City of Liverpool for its work to treat and prevent the disease across the region. Lord Mayor Frank Prendergast said the Liverpool Cancer Research UK Centre was a "deserving recipient" of the highest honour the city could bestow. Cancer Research UK chief executive Dr Harpal Kumar attended a ceremony at the town hall to receive the award The honour comes during the city's Action on Cancer Year. Dr Kumar was joined by senior management from University of Liverpool, Clatterbridge Centre for Oncology, Royal Liverpool Hospital and NHS Merseyside for the ceremony on Wednesday evening. The centre aims to boost key areas of research that will produce the greatest benefits for cancer patients in Liverpool, Merseyside and Cheshire. It also focuses on tackling cancer in low income communities in the region, where more people die from the disease. It is a partnership between Cancer Research UK, the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals Trust, Clatterbridge Centre for Oncology NHS Foundation Trust, the University of Liverpool, Liverpool City Council, and Merseyside and Cheshire Cancer Network. Mr Prendergast said: "Those working tirelessly to find a cure for cancer have made and continue to make a huge difference to the lives of many people. Their commitment and drive cannot be commended highly enough. "2012 is Liverpool's Action on Cancer Year, backed by the Council and Liverpool PCT, and Cancer Research UK's 10th anniversary. "I can think of no better time to reward the efforts of those working in the cancer research field."
The Duchess of Cambridge has carried out her first solo public engagement, at a preview of a new Lucian Freud exhibition in central London. Kate met dignitaries and was walked round the show at the National Portrait Gallery, of which she is a patron. St James's Palace has confirmed the duchess has also agreed to pose for a portrait for the gallery. Prince William is currently deployed in the Falkland Islands as an RAF Search and Rescue co-pilot. The duchess was taken around the exhibition - part of the countdown to the London 2012 Festival - by gallery director Sandy Nairne and exhibition curator Sarah Howgate. Freud, one of Britain's most distinguished and highly-regarded artists, died last year at the age of 88. Mr Nairne said: "The duchess was extremely attentive and I think really interested in not just the chance to see the full range of Lucian Freud's work but very interested to see the differences in technique. The BBC's home of 2012: Latest Olympic news, sport, culture, torch relay, video and audio "Because the early work is very fine in particular and then of course the work changes and becomes much more painterly." Kate has a history of art degree from the University of St Andrews, where she and William met in 2001.
Daily voucher company Groupon has reported an unexpected loss. In its first set of results since listing on Nasdaq stock exchange in November, Groupon reported a net loss of $42.7m (£27.0m), when a small profit had been expected. The loss for the last three months of 2011 compares with a loss of $378.6m in the same period of 2010. Shares in the company fell 13% in after-hours trading to $21.35, still above the listing price of $20. The number of people who bought a Groupon in the fourth quarter rose to 33 million, which was up 20% from the third quarter, but still below expectations. "The number of active customers came in short. That means not enough people are buying groupons," said Sameet Sinha at B. Riley and Company. "Yes, you can get fewer people to buy more, but how long can that continue? You need to start investing in new customer growth." The net loss for the whole of 2011 was $350.8m, down from $456.3m in 2010. Groupon blamed the fourth quarter loss on $34.8m of tax expenses in some of its international businesses, where it said it had paid an effective tax rate of approximately 1,600%. It also said that it had made extra provisions for income tax after establishing its international headquarters in Switzerland.
The number of people who have died in the Indian state of Orissa after drinking toxic illegal alcohol has risen to 31, officials say. About 70 more people are being treated in hospital and there are fears that the death toll could rise further. Residents of villages close to the city of Cuttack fell ill after consuming alcohol spiked with chemicals used in the manufacture of some medicines. Deaths from contaminated alcohol are a regular occurrence in India. The Orissa government has ordered a judicial investigation into the incident and nine people, including eight liquor sellers, have been arrested. The illegal alcohol - commonly called desi daroo or country-made liquor in India - usually costs as little as 10 rupees (20 US cents) and the majority of the consumers are poor, daily-wage workers. The tainted liquor can lead to fits, vomiting and death. Orissa has witnessed many incidents of toxic alcohol deaths.  Nearly 200 people died in Cuttack in 1992 after consuming a deadly combination of methyl and ethyl alcohol. In 2009, 33 people died in two separate incidents in Khurda district after consuming country liquor. It is a wider problem across India too: Correspondents say that Gujarat has taken the strongest action on toxic liquor with a new law making the illegal manufacture and sale of toxic alcohol there punishable by death. It says the law was intended to deter those involved in the illegal trade. Gujarat, Mizoram and Nagaland are the only states in India where alcohol is totally prohibited by law.
Three staff from a private hospital near Bristol have pleaded guilty to the ill treatment of residents. The case follows secret filming by the BBC's Panorama TV programme at the Castlebeck-owned Winterbourne View hospital near Hambrook. Wayne Rogers, 31, and Allison Dove, 24, both of Kingswood, admitted to nine and seven charges each and Holly Draper, 23, pleaded guilty to two charges. The programme showed patients allegedly being physically and verbally abused. Both Rogers and Dove pleaded not guilty to one charge each under the Mental Capacity Act, which was accepted by the Crown with the charges resting on file. The court heard the offences were committed between February and March 2011. Judge Michael Longman released all three on bail to await sentencing at a later date. At the same hearing, Michael Ezenagu, 28, of Malabar Court, India Way, London, pleaded not guilty to three counts of ill-treatment. Neil Ferguson, 27, of Emersons Green, Bristol, pleaded not guilty to one count of ill-treatment. No pleas were entered by Graham Doyle, 25, from Patchway, Jason Gardiner, 42, of Bristol, Charlotte Cotterell, 21, from Yate, Kelvin Fore, 33, of Middlesbrough, Sookalingum Appoo, 58, of Bristol and Danny Brake, 27 of Bristol. They will have their cases dealt with on 16 March. Twenty-four patients were transferred from Winterbourne View following the investigation and the home was closed last June. A spokesman for Avon and Somerset Police said a further three people who were arrested during the investigation will not face charges.
An 87-year old man from Brighton has asked the High Court in London to order the removal of records of his political activities from a police database. John Catt has spent years protesting in support of various causes, details of which are held on the National Domestic Extremism Database. The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) has refused to delete all the data retained about Mr Catt. The judgement on his application has been reserved for judicial review. Tim Owen QC, appearing for Mr Catt, told the court he was "passionate" about protesting and regularly took part, entirely peacefully, in demonstrations. He said Mr Catt had come to court to fight for "a citizen's right lawfully to manifest his political views without being labelled a domestic extremist subject to a special and apparently arbitrary form of state surveillance". According to Mr Owen, there were 66 written entries on the database referring to demonstrations Mr Catt had attended between March 2005 and October 2009, plus others relating to his daughter, Linda. Jeremy Johnson QC, representing both Acpo and the Met, told the court: "Where you engage in public activity [demonstrations] you do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy." He said the police were obliged to record who they saw at protests and what they did, even if they were not involved in unlawful activity. Mr Johnson also said if Mr Catt won the case the police would be prevented from recording and retaining important intelligence information that might help prevent crime. Lord Justice Gross, sitting with Mr Justice Irwin, reserved judgment on Mr Catt's application for judicial review which is expected to be handed down in the next few weeks.
Eastman Kodak, whose name became synonymous with photography, is to stop making digital cameras. The 133-year-old company said it would also end production of video cameras and digital picture frames. Kodak said it would concentrate on more profitable divisions such as photo printing and desktop inkjet printers. The company, which entered bankruptcy protection from its creditors last month, said that the changes should save about $100m (Â£63m) a year. Kodak said in a statement that it had been cutting its exposure to loss-making operations for some time. "Today's announcement is the logical extension of that process, given our analysis of the industry trends," said Pradeep Jotwani, president and chief marketing officer at Kodak. The company will continue to honour product warranties and provide technical support for the discontinued products. Kodak said it was working with its retailers to ensure an orderly transition. The move to seek bankruptcy protection came after Kodak failed to sell its catalogue of digital imaging patents last year. At the time, Kodak warned that it was running short of cash if it did not find a buyer by the end of 2011. The company has struggled to compete as mobile phone manufacturers have introduced increasingly sophisticated cameras on their own devices.
A minister in Guinea has been charged for his role in the killing of scores of people during a protest in 2009 in the capital against military rule. Col Moussa Tiegboro Camara is the most senior official to be charged over the massacre, one of the bloodiest events in the West African country's history. At least 157 people died when the troops opened fire in a Conakry stadium and 100 women were raped. The colonel was not taken into custody, the AFP news agency reports. International rights groups welcomed the indictment of Col Tiegboro Camara, who is a minister in the presidency in charge of fighting drug-trafficking and organised crime. "Ensuring justice for the 2009 victims and their families would help break the cycle of violence, fear, and impunity that has blighted the lives and hopes of so many Guineans for so many years," Corinne Dufka, senior West Africa researcher for the US-based group Human Rights Watch (HRW), said on Thursday. A HRW report has implicated Col Tiegboro Camara in the 28 September 2009 massacre - saying that he was in the stadium and in command of soldiers who descended on some 50,000 people protesting against the then-military junta of Moussa Dadis Camara. Eyewitnesses say people were shot, stabbed, bludgeoned or trampled to death and women raped. Capt Camara seized power in 2008 on the death of long-time leader Lansana Conte, but went into exile not long after the stadium massacre following an assassination attempt. His deputy oversaw the handover to civilian rule, with veteran opposition leader Alpha Conde winning elections in 2010.
Burmese monk Shin Gambira, one of the leaders of anti-government protests in 2007, has been released after briefly being detained by the authorities. Gambira had been taken from a monastery in Rangoon early on Friday morning, his brother told the BBC. Officials had said he was merely being questioned and was not charged. Gambira had been released as part of an amnesty last month, but continued his criticism of the civilian, military-backed government. The US State Department had expressed concern over his latest detention. One of the leaders of the All-Burmese Monks Alliance, the 31-year-old was arrested in November 2007, weeks after the monk-led ''saffron revolution'' protests were crushed. Less than three weeks later, he was jailed for 68 years, including 12 of hard labour. He was one of 651 people freed on 13 January in what was the most significant release of political prisoners since the country began a series of reforms aimed at encouraging the lifting of sanctions imposed by the European Union and United States. But after his release, Gambira reportedly began re-opening monasteries that were locked up by the authorities since the protests. In interviews, he expressed deep scepticism about reforms taking place in Burma, says the BBC's Rachel Harvey in Burma. An EU official is due to visit Burma on Saturday to offer 150m euros ($199m, Â£126m) in aid following the series of recent reforms. Andris Piebalgs, the European Union development commissioner, will meet with President Thein Sein as well as pro-democracy opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who is contesting upcoming by-elections.
South Africa is to issue a complete set of banknotes bearing the image of its first black president, Nelson Mandela. Mr Mandela, now 93, was released from prison on 11 February 1990 after 27 years in prison. President Jacob Zuma said the banknotes were a "humble gesture" to express South Africa's "deep gratitude". Mr Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for his campaign against white minority rule (apartheid). He was elected president the following year. Known affectionately by his clan name "Madiba", he has now retired from public life. Speaking at the central bank in Pretoria, President Jacob Zuma called Mr Mandela's release "the beginning of a new era of hope". "With this humble gesture, we are expressing our deep gratitude as the South African people, to a life spent in service of the people of this country and in the cause of humanity worldwide," he said. Advance notice of the news conference at the central bank had briefly rattled the markets, jittery about the state of South Africa's economy. No date for the release of the new notes has yet been announced. Production has already begun, but the latest edition of the currency will only be distributed towards the end of the year.
The fathers of two murdered children have helped launch a campaign to call for tighter global gun sale controls. Oxfam and Amnesty International staged an event in Glasgow to press the case for a "strong" arms trade treaty. Those taking part included David Grimason, from Edinburgh, whose two-year-old son Alistair was shot dead in a Turkish cafe in July 2003. Dr Mick North, whose five-year-old daughter Sophie died in the Dunblane shooting, is also backing the calls. He has campaigned for tighter gun controls since the massacre at the primary school in March 1996. The event in Glasgow coincided with a preliminary meeting in New York, which will set the agenda for United Nations talks in July. These negotiations will aim to finalise a global arms trade treaty which the governments of 153 countries have been working towards since 2006. Mr Grimason, who has spent almost a decade calling for tighter controls on the trade, said it was essential that governments around the world worked together. He said: "After nearly a decade of governments saying that something must be done, now is the time to finally do it. "It is up to our politicians to ensure that they put people's lives ahead of profit, but it is also up to the people of Scotland to make their voices heard and demand that the UK is at the forefront of championing a comprehensive treaty on the sales and transfer of weapons." Dr North said: "Over the next few months the UK's voice must remain strong, consistent and direct. "We've come too far to weaken our stance and I want Prime Minister David Cameron to ensure that the UK remains fully committed to securing a strong treaty."
Triton Submarines is a Florida-based company that designs and manufactures private submarines. Currently its deepest-diving vehicle, which was recently tested in the Bahamas, can plunge 1km (0.6 miles) down. But it forms a prototype for a vessel that will eventually be able to make the 11km (7-mile) journey to the bottom of the Mariana Trench. The centrepiece of the design is a glass sphere that is 15cm (6in) thick, which is being manufactured by Rayotek Scientific in San Diego. It will have to keep the three-man crew safe from the crushing pressures of the deep - but should also provide them with a 360-degree view during the descent. Triton's aim is a commercial one: the team plans to put tickets on sale for those who want to take the dive. Bruce Jones, the company's chief executive, said: "You have thousands of people that climb Everest, and Richard Branson is taking tonnes of deposits for trips into near-Earth orbit. "We think you can get $250,000 from some real adventuresome types to say they're one of a handful of people who've been to the deepest spot in the ocean." The company hopes to have the craft ready in the next two years.
The Deep Flight Challenger submersible has been backed by Richard Branson's Virgin empire, and is currently undergoing its first water trials. It was originally designed and built for billionaire adventurer Steve Fossett, who wanted to make the world's first solo dive to the bottom of the Mariana Trench. But after he died in a plane crash, former property investor Chris Welsh, who is based in California, bought the submarine and is now taking on the lonely challenge himself. Chris said: "I've been working day and night for two years pursuing this. I'm really excited to get out there and do it - I can't wait. "The rewards of this is breaking ground in so many ways - in raw human exploration, on bringing back science, and in getting a better understanding of our world." The experimental sub was created and built by British engineer Graham Hawkes. Fitted with wings and a tail fin, its design is based on that of a plane. Chris Welsh hopes to "fly" down to the bottom of the trench, and break the record for the first lone dive there, later this year. After this, he and the Virgin team also plan to plunge down four other trenches around the world, with the hope of reaching the deepest point in five oceans.
Hollywood director James Cameron has long been passionate about ocean exploration. He pioneered new underwater filming techniques while making The Abyss. And for the blockbuster Titanic, he used two Russian submersibles to gather footage of the wrecked liner, which lies nearly 4,000m (13,000ft) down in the Atlantic. Now he has turned his attention on the deepest ocean - and became the first person in 50 years to make the journey to the deepest place on the planet. His submarine is called the Deepsea Challenge, and was built by an Australian team of engineers - many of whom have worked with him on his films. The tiny compartment that the film-maker sat in is made from thick steel, which is able to resist the 1,000 atmospheres of pressure he experienced at full ocean depth. The rest of the vertical column is made from a material called syntactic foam - a solid made mostly of hollow "microballoons" - giving it enough buoyancy to float back up. He describes the sub as a "vertical torpedo" that slices through the water allowing him a speedy descent. It took him just two hours to make the 11km (seven mile) dive. The vessel is fitted with an array of 3D, high-definition stereoscopic cameras and a vast lighting array, that allowed him to film this deep, dark spot. The footage will form a documentary, which will be based on the dive. After making the dive, Mr Cameron told the BBC: "It was absolutely the most remote, isolated place on the planet." "I really feel like in one day I've been to another planet and come back."
Shares in technology giant Apple have crossed $500 (Â£317) a share for the first time. It caps a remarkable turnaround for the iPhone maker, whose shares were once worth as little as $3.19 in 1997, when it faced the possibility of bankruptcy. Apple is now worth $460bn. The company's revival under Steve Jobs, who died last year, came about first in computers and then the iPod music player, which was followed by the iPhone and iPad. Last month, Apple reported record-breaking net profits for the last three months of 2011, up 118% to $13.06bn from the same period a year earlier. The profits were the fourth-biggest in US corporate history. Mr Jobs co-founded Apple in Silicon Valley in 1976 but was fired a decade later. He was asked to rejoin in 1997 and changed the company's product lines, culminating in the success of the iPhone and its tablet spin-off, the iPad. Apple is in an escalating patent war with rivals Google and handset-makers such as Samsung and HTC over their operating systems. It recently filed a motion in US court that would ban Samsung's Galaxy Nexus, which uses Google's Android. Apple is poised to announce the third generation of its iPad next month, reports suggest. Meanwhile, the working conditions in factories that produce Apple products are to be inspected, the computing giant announced. The Fair Labor Association will audit several suppliers, including Foxconn in China, at Apple's request. Apple chief executive Tim Cook said: "Workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment."
The US will support efforts to get Sri Lanka to implement a government commission's conclusions in relation to the civil war, officials say. They say the US will back a resolution in the UN Human Rights Council in March which urges Colombo to look into war crimes allegations by its forces. Both Tamil Tiger rebels and the army have been accused of abuses during the final phase of the war in 2009. Sri Lanka appointed the commission to examine possible rights violations. It did so after a separate 2010 report written for the UN found that war crimes allegations were credible and warranted a full investigation. The Sri Lankan Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) cleared the military of allegations that it deliberately attacked civilians and deprived them of food and medicine as a tactic of war. It said that there were some violations by troops, but only at an individual level. The UN report reached a different conclusion: It said that allegations of rights violations were "credible" on both sides. Maria Otero, the most senior US official to visit Sri Lanka since 2005, said she discussed the recommendations made by the LLRC with President Mahinda Rajapaksa on Monday. She said that although the LLRC had  addressed a "number of crucial areas", there were "shortcomings on accountability". "The US will support a resolution in the UN Human Rights Council in March that provides an opportunity for the government of Sri Lanka to describe what it intends to do to implement the LLRC's recommendations and advance reconciliation, as well as address accountability, human rights and democracy concerns," she said. Human rights groups estimate that up to 40,000 civilians were killed in the final months of the war.
Brazil has asked China to allow more of its manufactured goods in to the Chinese market as it seeks to tap into the country's growing economy. The call comes as Brazil's trade surplus with China has been rising, hitting $11.5bn (Â£7bn) last year. Brazil has also asked China to reduce its exports amid concerns that the influx of low-cost Chinese goods was hurting its manufacturing sector. China is Brazil's biggest trading partner. These issues were discussed during Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan's visit to Brasilia. Brazil's exports to China are currently dominated by commodities and natural resources such as iron ore. However, the country's manufacturers are now looking to increase their shipments to China in a bid to take a share of one of the fastest growing economies and consumer markets in the world. Earlier this year, Brazilian plane maker Embraer appointed actor Jackie Chan as its brand ambassador in a bid to boost sales of private jets in the Chinese market. The firm has already received orders from one of China's leading aircraft leasing firms for 13 new jets. "We are discussing some issues of concern to Brazilian industry, such as Brazilian exports of manufactured goods to China," Brazilian Vice President Michel Temer was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency. Mr Temer said he had also asked Beijing for a "voluntary" reduction of Chinese exports to Brazil amid fears of their impact on the local manufacturing industry.
More than 400 works by Dutch artist Karel Appel have been recovered after being discovered in a British warehouse a decade after they went missing. The artist was said to be distraught when his drawings and sketches disappeared in transit to the Karel Appel Foundation in Amsterdam in 2002. Eight crates of artworks were found by a logistics company who sent it to auction house Bonhams for valuation. Bonhams and the Art Loss Register (ALR) confirmed they were the missing works. They had been listed on the ALR's database of more than 350,000 missing, stolen and disputed artworks. A settlement was eventually agreed between the ALR and the Appel Foundation, and the logistics company - whose name has not been released. "This case highlights the responsibility of companies who store and transport works of art," said ALR lawyer Christopher Marinello. He said that logistics companies store and move millions of pounds worth of art every year "but rarely check with the ALR whether the works are missing." Appel's widow Harriet said: "I am extremely happy that the Karel Appel Foundation have recovered the lost drawings." The artist, who died in 2006, was a painter, printmaker, sculptor and ceramist. In 1954, he received the Unesco prize at the Venice Biennale and he was one of the founders of the avant-garde movement Cobra in 1948. His paintings are mostly identified for their thickly-painted and swirling depictions of grotesque animals and humans.
Tottenham midfielder Tom Huddlestone will have further surgery on his ankle injury and miss the rest of the season as a result, the club have confirmed. "Thanks for messages! My season is over before it's even started. Operation Friday," said Huddlestone on Twitter. "My main objective is to make sure I'm 100% for pre-season." The 25-year-old has made just four appearances for the club this season because of the injury and first had surgery late last year. Tottenham now say he requires further surgery to complete his recovery from the ligament damage and the club are expecting him to return in time for pre-season training. "The midfielder has progressed well since his initial surgery," the club said in a statement. "The specialist has determined that the anticipated reconstruction of a lateral ankle ligament is the next step towards the England international making a return to full fitness." Huddlestone has established himself as a key figure in the Spurs set-up in recent years following his move to White Hart Lane from Derby in 2005. He made more starts than any other outfield player in all competitions in the 2009-10 season as Tottenham finished fourth in the Premier League and qualified for the Champions League for the first time.
The Supreme Court has ruled it will decide whether private investigator Glenn Mulcaire must reveal which journalists asked him to hack phones. The court granted Mulcaire permission to appeal against two court orders that could have forced him to name the reporters. The two-day hearing will begin on 9 May. Earlier this month Mulcaire lost his appeal against the orders at the Royal Courts of Justice, but appealed. He had appealed to try to avoid having to answer questions in civil proceedings that could incriminate him. Mulcaire was jailed in January 2007 for six months along with the News of the World's royal correspondent Clive Goodman for illegally accessing voicemails of members of the royal household. At the time he surrendered notebooks to the police containing information about phone hacking. Mulcaire was contracted to the former newspaper to undertake "research assignments" from at least September 2001. Comedian Steve Coogan and PR consultant Nicola Phillips, a former employee of the publicist Max Clifford, have since launched civil privacy cases against News International, the publisher of the now-defunct Sunday tabloid, and Mulcaire. Currently, if questioned in the cases, Mulcaire would have to explain how he obtained voicemail numbers and passwords and who provided the details. The Supreme Court only deals with the most important cases where the top judges have to decide on a point of law which is of general public importance.
Cisco has said it will challenge Microsoft's $8.5bn (Â£5.4bn) takeover of Skype at the EU's top court. The networking giant said conditions needed to be set to ensure Microsoft would not block other video services. In October, the European Union had ruled the deal would not impede competition. But Cisco has called on the European Commission to introduce open standards similar to those used for mobile phones. "Cisco does not oppose the merger, but believes the European Commission should have placed conditions that would ensure greater standards-based interoperability," Cisco's video conferencing head Martin De Beer wrote in a blog post. European Commission spokesman Antoine Colombani said: "We will defend our decision in court." Skype has over 650 million users worldwide. Its takeover by Microsoft, announced in May last year, is the software giant's single biggest acquisition. Cisco offers its own video conferencing service called WebEx. Open standards for video services would potentially allow calls to be made between WebEx and Skype, as well as other services like Google Video. Without such a standard, Mr De Beer said Microsoft could control "the future of video communications". "Making a video-to-video call should be as easy as dialling a phone number,'' he argued. "Today, however, you can't make seamless video calls from one platform to another, much to the frustration of consumers and business users alike."
A dog had to be taken to an emergency vet after swallowing cannabis while walking in Northamptonshire. Christine Proctor noticed her six-year-old Labrador was behaving oddly after a walk in Ecton Brook playing fields in Northampton on Sunday. Major was taken to an out-of-hours vet who confirmed the dog had eaten the drug and put him on a drip. Mrs Proctor, 57, who has had to pay Â£350 in vet fees, said: "He is getting better but he is still dazed." She added: "Initially he was was so frightened, he was hiding in the corner, then he was sensitive to touch and he couldn't control his bladder. "It was horrible to see him like that." Mrs Proctor, who is disabled and lives in sheltered housing, had to borrow the money to pay for Major's medical care. She said: "He has had Â£350 of treatments and he will have to have more tests to make sure he is rid of it - I would warn any dog owner to be careful." If Major had been a smaller dog the drugs could have killed him. Vet Anna Holden, of Swanspool Veterinary Practice in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire said that dog owners should be vigilant. "Dogs are very sensitive to drugs it can affect them very badly - in some cases it can lead to death. "With cannabis dogs get hyper, they become very weak then they go into a coma state, it is traumatic for them."
Two agreements have been signed aimed at creating one of the most significant tidal power sites in Europe, Alderney Renewable Energy has announced. The first was for the development of tidal arrays in Alderney's waters. The second involves the development of an electricity interconnector cable between France, Alderney and Britain. Paul Clark, chief executive officer, said it was a move towards the creation off Alderney of one of Europe's largest tidal stream developments. Alderney Renewable Energy (ARE) was set up in 2004 and holds an exclusive licence to commercially develop tidal and wave power around the coast of the northern most of the Channel Islands. The first agreement was signed with French industrial group DCNS and the second with ARE, its partner Transmission Capital and the French grid operator RTE. ARE said the electricity interconnector cable between France, Alderney and Britain would enable the export of up to four gigawatts of tidal power from Alderney. It said the cable, known as the FABLink, could also be used as a power trading link between the two countries. The agreements were signed at the Anglo-French summit held in Paris, with the French Industry Minister Eric Besson and the UK Energy Secretary Ed Davey signing on the behalf of their governments. Mr Davey said: "We are determined to promote the potential of marine energies. We welcome the plan for a tidal turbine farm off Alderney in the Channel Islands." He said: "We believe this project could encourage the emergence of industrial co-operation between France and the UK, while opening up new international prospects. "We acknowledge the importance of developing new electricity interconnectors between our two countries in order to strengthen further the linking of our grids, improve the security of our energy supplies and facilitate the integration of intermittent energy sources."
The fuselage of a World War II Spitfire that has spent the last few years in a garden in Oxford has failed to reach its asking price at auction in Surrey. The aircraft, nicknamed "Bette" after one of its pilot's girlfriends, was built in 1941 from donations from the Borough of Lambeth Spitfire Fund. It was stationed in Cornwall, Hampshire, Norfolk and Shropshire during the war but crashed in 1944. Bidding stalled below its Â£120,000 to Â£150,000 valuation. The aircraft saw service with four RAF squadrons between 1941 and 1944 and was flown by author Alec Lumsden, who gave it the name Bette and added a character from the Daily Mirror cartoon strip 'Just Jake' to the paint work. After it crashed in Shropshire in September 1944, killing its Australian pilot, its wreckage was taken to Ibsley museum, Ringwood, Hampshire and displayed. The aircraft was later passed to a collector who showed it at events. It has also been immortalised by modelmakers Airfix and Revell. John Tomlin, from Historics at Brooklands, said: "The historical side of war birds is an up-and-coming market. There are now about 42 flying Spitfires and this seems to be increasing ever year. "The rarity, the history and the provenance of all these aircraft make them very investable items and they're investments that can be used and enjoyed by a lot of people." Experts believe it would cost about Â£1.8m to fully restore the plane.
Gillingham have told defender Matt Lawrence he can leave the club on loan and his contract will not be renewed. The 37-year-old, who has previously played for Crystal Palace and Millwall, joined the club in the summer of 2010 and has made 73 Gills appearances. Striker Dennis Oli, 28, has also been told he can leave after starting just one game this season. Boss Andy Hessenthaler told the club website: "If someone comes in, we will consider them going out [on loan]." Hessenthaler added: "I've said their contracts are nearly up and we've told them that we won't be offering them a new deal." Hessenthaler has indicated he would like to reduce the wage bill to give him more chance of signing two transfer targets. Former Charlton defender Jonathan Fortune and ex-Wolves midfielder Rohan Ricketts have both been training at the club. I had a text message from the chairman, he's behind us and he'll be behind us until the end if we continue to show that desire, commitment and effort Hessenthaler continued: "We've said we may be able to do something but that might mean I have to let a couple go on loan. "I've got to speak to Rohan's agent but he's a different type of player than we've got." Meanwhile, Hessenthaler has revealed he has received a text from chairman Paul Scally giving him his backing after they lost to Port Vale, their sixth straight defeat. The Gills boss told BBC Radio Kent: "There have been some top managers in the world who have been sacked so there's no shame in that, but I'm not looking to that. "I had a text message from the chairman, he's behind us and he'll be behind us until the end if we continue to show that desire, commitment and effort."
Thai police have named a sixth suspect over an alleged Iranian bomb plot to attack Israeli diplomats in Bangkok. The man was named as Norouzi Shaya Ali Akbar, 57, wanted on suspicion of possessing and making explosives. Three men are in custody in Thailand and Malaysia and two other people, a man and a woman, are also being sought after last week's blasts in Bangkok. Thai police took one suspect back to the scene of the first blast on Monday. Wearing handcuffs and a bullet-proof vest, Mohamad Khazaei was brought to a house used by the suspects in central Bangkok. An explosion there last Tuesday sparked a dramatic attempt by the Iranians to flee the country, during which a second suspect was badly injured by his own bomb. A third suspect managed to board a plane to Kuala Lumpur, where he was detained and is facing a Thai extradition request. The other two suspects are Iranian woman Leila Rohani, who is believed to be back in Iran, and a man of unknown nationality, who was named by police on Friday as Nikkhahfard Javad. Thai deputy national police chief Pansiri Prapawat said Norouzi Shaya Ali Akbar had been filmed by a CCTV camera leaving a house rented by the suspects. He is thought to have fled to Iran, the police official was quoted as saying by AFP news agency. Security analysts have linked the Bangkok blasts, in which four other people were injured, to two attacks targeting Israeli diplomats in India and Georgia last Monday. Israel has accused Tehran of being behind all three attacks while Tehran has denied any involvement.
Snow gates are to be fitted on parts of an exposed road between South Yorkshire and Greater Manchester in a bid to stop drivers using the route in bad weather. The gates will be installed on the A628 Woodhead Pass at Flouch roundabout near Penistone and east of the junction with the A6024 near Woodhead Reservoir. Electronic signs to warn drivers the road ahead is closed will also be fitted, the Highways Agency said. Work begins on the gates this week and is expected to be completed by April. Costing Â£250,000, the gates and signs will be operated manually by the police in conjunction with the Highways Agency. The warning signs will be sited on the east and westbound approaches to the A628 at Mottram roundabout in Greater Manchester and at the Flouch and Westwood roundabouts in South Yorkshire. Sujad Hussain, Highways Agency project manager, said the aim of the gates and signs was not to close the Woodhead Pass more frequently. "Weather conditions and driver safety will continue to dictate when, or if, this happens," he said. "What we are trying to do is ensure that drivers already on the route have more warning of what's ahead and have more time to take alternative strategic routes." Anthony Ashton, South Yorkshire Police's traffic management officer, said the gates would free police resources during bad weather as officers would no longer have to be present at points where the Woodhead Pass was closed. "The gates will also reduce the length of route that has to be closed, making it easier to maintain access to local businesses and residential properties in the area," Mr Ashton added.
Digital station Jazz FM has apologised after what appeared to be part of a pornographic film soundtrack was broadcast during one of its shows. Listeners to Mike Vitti's show on Saturday heard about five minutes of groaning in the background as music and adverts played. A statement from Vitti was posted on the station's website on Monday. "Please accept our profound and sincere apologies for any offence we may have caused," it read. "Unfortunately we had an unauthorised access to the live feed on Jazz FM on Saturday 18 February at 7:15pm which resulted in a highly regrettable incident. "Rest assured we have taken steps to ensure that there will be no repeat." On his Twitter feed on Tuesday, Vitti - who is also head of programming - wrote: "I'm truly sorry but we have had a major hack into the feed. "Engineers looking into it now, once again, profound apologies." Vitti added that he would apologise on air on his next show. He went on to tweet that he "was going to London after last week's fiasco. Not been in a good mood these last few days. Can't understand why someone would do that." The station has an average weekly audience of about 500,000 and covers many jazz genres, including funky, Latin and big band. Vitti's Funky Sensations show features such artists as Rick James, Teddy Pendergrass, George Duke, Booker T and Roy Ayers.
A Scottish teenager was asked by Elton John to open his Falkirk concert in June after he heard her singing. Sir Elton called 13-year-old Tallia Storm on her mobile after listening to a CD she had given to the star's partner, David Furnish. Soul singer Tallia said it was "surreal" to speak to Sir Elton, who was one of her musical heroes. She will perform at the Falkirk Stadium concert on 10 June - the only Scottish date on Sir Elton's 2012 UK tour. Tallia spotted Mr Furnish when she was on holiday abroad this Christmas and gave him a letter and CD to pass on to Sir Elton. The singer called her the following day. The 13-year-old, from Killearn in Stirling, said: "I really didn't know what to say at first but he was so excited about my music and said he thought my signature was incredible. "He was just so nice, warm and totally down to earth. We spoke a few times and then he called my mum that night to explain what he had in mind. "I don't actually think I will take it all in until I am standing on his stage at Falkirk - someone will have to pinch me for sure."
A copy of Leonardo Da Vinci's Mona Lisa, believed to have been painted at the same time as the original, has gone on display at Madrid's Prado museum. The work, which has just been fully restored, is thought to have been painted by a Da Vinci assistant. "I think what's important is it enables us to understand how Leonardo worked in his studio," said deputy director of conservation, Gabriele Finaldi. The painting moves to the Louvre in Paris for an exhibition in March. The original hangs in the Parisian gallery so this will allow visitors to compare the two works. A black layer of paint on the Prado copy was removed as part of the restoration process - this revealed details in the landscape which experts say is evidence the replica was made at the same time Da Vinci painted the original. The restoration process took two years. Experts discovered that the Prado version was painted on a walnut panel. This wood was used for other small-format panels by Leonardo and his studio, including The Lady with the Ermine and Saint John the Baptist. The high quality of the materials used in the creation of the Madrid version suggests that it was an important commission. The Prado's Mona Lisa has been in the museum since it was opened in 1819. The newly-revealed painting will be on display there until 13 March. There are dozens of surviving Mona Lisa replicas from the 16th and 17th Centuries - when copying famous artworks was a thriving business. The original painting, dating from the early 16th Century, is obscured by several layers of old, cracked varnish. However, cleaning and restoration is thought to be too risky because the painting is fragile.
The BBC has defended its coverage of Whitney Houston's funeral on its News Channel following complaints from viewers about its duration. The broadcaster received 118 complaints about the Channel's coverage of the four-hour service on Saturday. The corporation said it was "part of the News Channel function to be there when major stories take place". Another 34 complaints were received from people upset that the service had been interrupted. Live coverage of the service began at 17:00 GMT and continued until just before 20:30 GMT, with the BBC continuing to report on the story afterwards. "The News Channel's coverage of Whitney Houston's funeral reflected the significant interest in her sudden death as well as acknowledging the impact she had as a global recording artist," said the corporation in a statement. It acknowledged that "some people felt there was too much coverage" but said BBC One's teatime bulletin, radio bulletins and other services had still given viewers "the best access to the day's other news stories". Stevie Wonder, Alicia Keys and R Kelly performed at the service, which took place in Newark, New Jersey. Actor Kevin Costner, who starred with Houston in The Bodyguard, gave a eulogy. The 48-year-old singer was found in a bath in her hotel room at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles on 11 February. The cause of her death will remain unclear until the results of the toxicology tests are announced.
Three bariatric ambulances are coming into service in the south east to cope with "increasing issues" with patients who weight up to 50st. The vehicles, which cost Â£400,000, have been bought by South East Coast Ambulance Service (SECAmb). The new ambulances have wider lifting equipment and specialist handling aids. SECAmb operations director James Pavey said the ambulances were not exclusive to bariatric patients. He said: "These vehicles can be used for any patient, from the outside you wouldn't notice them to look much different from the average ambulance." Mr Pavey said methods of moving obese patients without specialist equipment were "not particularly dignified or humane". "We have a number of increasing issues with people who are more than morbidly obese and weigh up to 50 stone. "We will probably need to increase the size of the fleet to meet the demand but this is the first step." The specialist equipment includes a Megasus stretcher, gantry and mobile hoists, threshold ramps and enhanced air cushion lifting aids as well as a stair-climber chair. When Mr Pavey was asked if these new ambulances meant the NHS was giving up on trying to get obese people to lose weight, he said: "We're responding to the needs of patients who are acutely unwell. "Chronic conditions turn into acute conditions very quickly because of the complications of their weight. We're by no means giving up as far as the NHS goes." The vehicles will be based in Paddock Wood in Kent, Chertsey in Surrey and Worthing in West Sussex.
A bronze sculpture worth £20,000 has been stolen from Kelvingrove Museum in Glasgow. Dreaming, by Gerald Laing, disappeared on Sunday afternoon. It was last seen by museum staff at 15:45. Strathclyde Police have started to examine CCTV images from a number of areas within the museum. Management said it was the first time a piece had been stolen since the building reopened in 2006 after a major refurbishment. A spokesman for Glasgow Life, which manages the city museums, said: "This was a deliberate act. "Someone has stolen from the people of Glasgow. As with all of our collections, this work belongs to them. "We are working with the police and other agencies and would appeal for the safe return of this work of art." He said there had been more than nine million visitors to Kelvingrove since it reopened, with no previous incidents of work being taken from public view. "Thanks to the quick action of staff, we have been able to identify a short timeframe where we believe the bronze was stolen and are in the process of examining CCTV footage from across the museum to identify those responsible," he added. Artist Laing was born in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and lived on the Black Isle, near Inverness. He died, aged 75, in November last year. Laing spent much of the 1960s working in pop art in New York and was a close friend of artists Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. His most famous works included images of actresses Brigitte Bardot and Anna Karina.
The BBC looks at some of the key figures emerging in Russia's political scene. Alexei Navalny is considered by many in Russia to be the country's most promising opposition leader. Full profile: Alexei Navalny The young lawyer first came to public attention as a blogger who ran a number of anti-corruption campaigns which exposed the excesses of Russia's political eite. However, he gained wider popularity after getting involved in the mass opposition rallies in 2011, becoming one of their informal leaders. He was arrested along with 300 protesters on 5 December and spent 15 days in prison. He is trusted by many nationalists and distrusted by some liberals because of comments he has made against illegal immigration and because he attended the Russia March, a nationalist demonstration with strong far-right connections. He was expelled by the left-liberal Yabloko party in 2007 over what it said were his "nationalistic activities". But his commitment to democracy, political pluralism and the free market have given him wide appeal. He coined the catch-phrase "party of crooks and thieves" which is now widely used by the opposition to describe Vladimir Putin's United Russia. In an interview at the beginning of 2012, he said he would be ready to run for president if elections were free and fair.
Oscar-winning actress Vanessa Redgrave is to lead the children's parade which will open this year's Brighton Festival. As festival guest director, she will have a major input into the event which is to take place from 5 to 27 May 2012. Ms Redgrave said that although she had been involved in important arts events before, this was her first festival. "It's a wonderful thing to me that I've been asked to really be part of this festival," she said. Ms Redgrave is well-known for her political activism and campaigning for human rights and follows last years guest director, the Burmese pro-Democracy campaigner Aung San Suu Kyi, in that tradition. She is also a Unicef goodwill ambassador and wants the festival to inspire all ages. "It will bring the young together with the old and the young people with their new visions and their new perspectives, their new ideas," she said. "It will be giving them a chance to see some of the very best work they can possibly see." This year's Brighton Festival, which was launched on Wednesday evening, will include 143 events and 351 performances, some of which will include Vanessa Redgrave herself. Andrew Comben, who is chief executive of the festival, said: "One thing that Vanessa is particularly passionate about is the work for children and so that is really representative in the festival this year. "I am really delighted that she will lead the children's parade. It's a fantastic symbol of everything that is important for Brighton Festival and its basis in the community."
A venomous spider from Colombia has been found in a bunch of bananas by an Edinburgh shop worker. The wandering spider, commonly known as a banana spider, was spotted crawling out of the fruit in Asda's Chesser branch on Tuesday. A shop worker caught the female arachnid in a plastic jar before calling the Scottish SPCA. The spider, with a 10cm leg span, was taken to the Edinburgh Butterfly and Insect World where it later died. Shop worker, Petra Merriman, 45, caught the spider. She said her male colleagues had been "in panic" after discovering the spider. She said: "All the boys were running round like headless chickens. "One of the chaps who was putting a box of bananas in the display took a lid off a box and saw it was curled around a banana. "We got a phone call in the back office saying come and deal with this spider. "The guys all said 'I'm not going.' I said I would. I'm not arachnophobic at all." She added: "I brought a pot with a secure lid down with me, and I just popped it in. "I didn't have to touch it, I just put the pot underneath it. "Nothing like this has ever happened here before." Kevin Thom, of Edinburgh Butterfly and Insect World, said: "It isn't deadly but its venom contains high levels of serotonin. "If bitten you would experience pain, swelling, muscle spasms and flu-like symptoms which could be very unpleasant, depending on the amount of venom that was injected. "These spiders can survive transport from abroad by shutting down and becoming very cold. "They awaken when they warm up, which is often under bright shop lights. "This female has possibly suffered shock in transit or it may simply have been her time to die."
The sole remnant of France's once-extensive possessions in North America, the Atlantic islands of St Pierre and Miquelon lie off the Canadian island of Newfoundland. Fish processing is the main economic activity although tourism is increasingly important and the territory capitalises on its image as "France in North America". It depends on France for subsidies and Canada for goods and transport links. After periods of French and British rule, the territory was restored to France in 1816, becoming a French "territorial collectivity" in 1985. The prohibition era of the 1920s made the territory a centre for shipping whisky, wine and rum to the US but its end in 1933 plunged the islands into economic depression. The first Europeans were attracted by fish stocks around the islands, with a French fishing post being established in 1604. The descendants of the first settlers - including Bretons, Normans and Basques - make up much of the present population. Population 6,100 Area 242 sq km (93 sq miles) Major language French Major religion Christianity Life expectancy 76 years (men), 80 years (women) Currency euro Head of state: French President A prefect appointed by France represents the Paris government in the territory. An elected General Council oversees local affairs. The territory sends representatives to the French National Assembly and to the Senate. Radio & television
Fire service control centres for Surrey and the Isle of Wight are getting ready to merge, with both fire brigades being run from Reigate from next month. The two fire services have signed up to a five-year merger deal which begins during the weekend of 3 and 4 March. Surrey County Council said continual investment had kept the Reigate centre up to date and the Isle of Wight service had requested to use it. The local authority said both areas would have a first-class service. Councillor Kay Hammond, Surrey's cabinet member for community safety, said: "We've spent a long time drafting this agreement to ensure it is in the best interests of both Surrey and the Isle of Wight. "Safety is always our number one priority and by working together we'll provide a first-class service to the residents of both communities." Surrey's assistant chief fire officer Steve Owen-Hughes said: "We are in a strong position because we've been investing in new technology, which means we have the capacity to work with the Isle of Wight with no impact on Surrey." An Isle of Wight Council spokesman said the Isle of Wight control room would remain on standby for about a month after the transfer next month. Three staff who worked in the island's control room will transfer to Surrey. He said local knowledge of the island was not an operational issue, but residents on the island could take comfort from the fact that some Isle of Wight staff would be based in Reigate.
Hydrogen sulphide, the gas famed for generating the stench in stink bombs, flatulence and bad breath, has been harnessed by stem cell researchers in Japan. Their study,in the Journal of Breath Research, investigated using it to help convert stem cells from human teeth into liver cells. The scientists claimed the gas increased the purity of the stem cells. Small amounts of hydrogen sulphide are made by the body. It is also produced by bacteria and is toxic in large quantities. A group in China has already reported using the gasto enhance the survival of mesenchymal stem cellstaken from the bone marrow of rats. Researchers at the Nippon Dental University were investigating stem cells from dental pulp - the bit in the middle of the tooth. They said using the gas increased the proportion of stem cells which were converted to liver cells when used alongside other chemicals. The idea is that liver cells produced from stem cells could be used to repair the organ if it was damaged. Dr Ken Yaegaki, from Nippon Dental University in Japan, said: "High purity means there are less 'wrong cells' that are being differentiated to other tissues, or remaining as stem cells." One of the concerns with dental pulp as a source of stem cells is the number that can be harvested. However, the study did not say how many cells were actually produced. Prof Chris Mason, a specialist in regenerative medicine at University College London, said: "It would be interesting to see how hydrogen sulphide works with other cells types."
Battersea Power Station is being offered for sale on the open market for the first time. It is hoped the sale, to be handled by estate agent Knight Frank, will cover the Â£502m debts accrued by a firm which tried to redevelop the landmark site. The 39-acre property is on the Thames and a new public park is planned there. Chancellor George Osborne has confirmed government backing for plans to extend the London Underground's Northern Line into the heart of the area. Stephan Miles-Brown, head of residential development at Knight Frank, said: "This is the first time Battersea Power Station has ever been offered for sale on the open market. "As one of the UK's most recognisable landmarks, Knight Frank anticipates considerable interest in a scheme that is among the most exciting in the world today. "Battersea Power Station is as iconic as the Chrysler Building in New York or the Eiffel Tower, and familiar to people who may have never even been to London." The Grade II listed building opened in 1933 and generated power until 1983. As such any building work would require listed building consent - even minor works, such as painting. It was acquired by Real Estate Opportunities, the majority owner of the holding company, in 2006. Last year its debts on the project were called in by creditors.
A "glitch" which shut down all the computer systems at Edinburgh Airport caused "massive disruption" and some flight delays. BAA said the problem had been caused by a hardware fault which saw the check-in desks and boarding screens fail for almost three hours. Edinburgh Airport said there was "congestion" as passengers had to be checked in manually from 07:30. Flights were also delayed as passengers did not know which gates to go to. The problem was fixed at about 10:00. A man at the airport told the BBC Scotland news website he was delayed at the airport for about an hour. He said: "My flight didn't leave until 10am because the computers were down. There were queues at the check-in desks and people didn't know where to board their flights. "There was massive disruption." A BAA spokesman said: "We had a slight issue this morning with the network which meant that we lost some computer services. "It did not cause any cancellations or any great delays, but it did cause some queuing in the check in area between 7am and 9am. "Our team were on it and, following investigation, it was found to be a hardware fault that was sorted quickly." He added: "We saw some flights delayed by about half an hour, and congestion in the check-in area which was cleared as soon as the fault was fixed."
Nearly £600,000 is to be spent creating wildlife havens in South Yorkshire's Dearne Valley. The area is one of 12 in England that have been chosen by the government to become Nature Improvement Areas (NIAs). The Dearne Valley Green Heart Partnership will use the money to restore the River Don floodplain and create new woodlands and wetlands. Pete Wall, from the partnership, said: "It's absolutely fantastic. We've got a great future ahead of us now." The partnership is made up of three local authorities, the RSPB, Natural England and the Environment Agency. Mr Wall, the RSPB's Dearne Valley project manager, said: "The great thing is this recognition, being only one of 12 NIAs in the country, means that this area is going to get so much more investment." The valley was once the heart of the extensive South Yorkshire coalfield but the Environment Agency said heavy industry left a legacy of polluted rivers and contaminated land. Over the past five years the partnership has worked to improve rivers and their washlands and created new cycle routes across the valley. A total of 76 groups had bid to become NIAs. John Healey, Labour MP for Wentworth and Dearne, said: "This is national recognition that we have a special nature area in the Dearne, one that is more exceptional because of our heavy industrial heritage. "We've come a long way already and this will help fulfil the eco-vision, build on the proven track record of the RSPB and others and make the green heart of the Dearne even greener."
A large extinct penguin has been reconstructed from fossil remains discovered in New Zealand. Researchers used bones from two separate examples of the ancient birds, using the skeleton of a modern king penguin as a guide. They show the 25 million-year-old Kairuku penguin was tall at 1.2m (4ft 2in), with an elongated beak and large flippers. The team's work appears in the Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. The reconstruction shows that the Kairuku penguin was easily the largest of the five species that were common to New Zealand during the Oligocene time period. The efforts were partly inspired by the bird's unusual body shape, which is different from any other known penguin, living or extinct. "Kairuku was an elegant bird by penguin standards, with a slender body and long flippers, but short, thick legs and feet," said co-author Dr Dan Ksepka, from North Carolina State University, US. "If we had done a reconstruction by extrapolating from the length of its flippers, it would have stood over 6ft tall. In reality, Kairuku was around 4ft 2in tall or so." Twenty-five million years ago, New Zealand was an attractive location for penguins because it offered both food and safety. Most of the present day country was underwater at that time, leaving isolated, rocky land masses that protected the penguins from potential predators and provided them with a plentiful food supply." The name Kairuku comes from a Maori word that loosely translates to "diver who returns with food". Bigger penguins have been discovered: at least two extinct species discovered in Peru stood about 5ft (1.5m) tall.
An unlicensed female sanitary drug which has a hallucinogenic effect if misused has been seized in raids on Polish shops in Southampton. Tantum Rosa is an anti-inflammatory medicine manufactured in Poland. The raids by health officials, thought to be the UK's first for the product, followed police reports of teenagers allegedly high on the drug vandalising a local cemetery. Southampton Trading Standards said the medicine was safe if used correctly. But it was not licensed for sale in the UK. Danio Polish Shop, in St Mary's Road, Southampton, had been found selling Tantum Rosa by the police, Trading Standards and the government's Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). Other shops visited were told to remove other medical products. Hampshire Constabulary called the operation "a success". Southampton resident Ella Porawska, from Poland, said she was "shocked" Tantum Rosa, a soluble powder, was being misused by teenagers. She said: "I was really surprised that somebody can sell them these products." Danny Lee-Frost, from the MHRA, said he was "concerned" the medicine was being used as a recreational drug. He said: "Because it is labelled in Polish, people who get hold of it won't be aware of what the ingredients are if they do attempt to misuse it." He added: "We'd like to see this product removed from all shelves in the UK and this is the first step in our efforts in doing that." Police said shopkeepers found selling the product could face prosecution.
Northern Rock is expected to return a profit of up to £11bn to the taxpayer over the next 10 to 15 years, the body which manages the government's bank investments has said. The government provided £37bn of funding to bail out the two companies that comprise the former Northern Rock. UKFI now says that the return of cash from the two companies is expected to total between £46bn and £48bn. Northern Rock was nationalised in 2008 after struggling in the credit crunch. After experiencing funding problems when banks stopped lending to each other in 2007, the Newcastle-based lender suffered the first run on a British bank in more than a century. It was later split into two, Northern Rock plc and Northern Rock (Asset Management), into which was placed its bad debt. In November 2011, the government announced the sale of Northern Rock plc to Virgin Money for £747m. UKFI said that the expected cash return included the recent sale, as well as loan repayments, interest, guarantee fees and the winding-down of Northern Rock (Asset Management). "This means that, in cash terms, the companies are expected to more than repay the original funding provided by the taxpayer," UKFI said. "However, this cash is expected to be returned over a period of around 10 to 15 years from 2012 as Northern Rock (Asset Management) plc is run down and the remaining government loan is repaid. "This is equivalent to receiving an annual rate of return on the government's intervention of 3.5% to 4.5% per year and compares to the government's estimated notional annual funding costs during the period of intervention of 3.9%."
The electrification of the East Midlands rail mainline would cost about £500m to complete, a Labour MP says. The Midland Mainline is used by diesel trains while the East and West Coast mainlines are electrified. Leicester South MP John Ashworth said the potenial cost emerged during talks with the Department for Transport. Transport Minister Theresa Villiers said the government supported "the progressive electrification" of the network. Mr Ashworth said the project was "vital" for the regional economy. Mrs Villiers said: "The government have made it clear that we see the progressive electrification of the rail network as an important part of our transport and environmental policy." She added that the government would give further details on its rail industry plans in July. "This project would lead to economic stimulus and to economic growth and immediate jobs now in Leicester, Derby, Nottingham and all the way up to Sheffield," Mr Ashworth, a Labour MP, said. "I am calling on the minister to strike while the iron is hot and get on with it." Transport analyst Christian Wolmar said trains on an electrified line would be cleaner, more energy efficient and faster. He said the major cities in the East Midlands would "benefit enormously" from the project. Electric trains already travel on the Midland Mainline up to Bedford but, after that, only diesel engines run on the track. Network Rail has said the electrification of the route between London and the East Midlands could happen by the end of the decade.
A new organisation has been set up in Northern Ireland to support people who suffer from rare diseases. The Northern Ireland Rare Disease Partnership aims to give sufferers and their carers an independent voice. The group, created with the Patient Client Council, aims to improve treatment and care for those affected by rare diseases. Jane Stewart is one woman who hopes that the new partnership will help families like hers. She suffers from Spondylo Ephysial Dysplasia (SED) - a genetic condition which her young son, Saul, has inherited. It is a form of restricted growth or dwarfism. "I wouldn't change myself or my son or children like him for the world. But I would change the world for them," she said. "I feel a partnership for rare disease is going to be extremely useful for families like ours living with a rare condition. "In the information that I have about the rare disease partnership, the focus is on education, provision of special services and support." Richard Dickson from the Patient Client Council said: "This partnership aims to be a voice for those people scattered across Northern Ireland affected by rare disease with no other means to speak up for themselves." The partnership will lobby and advocate on their behalf.
During the Bosnian war, most media became propaganda tools of the authorities, armies and factions. Since then, efforts have been made - with limited success - to develop media which bridge ethnic boundaries. TV is the chief news source. The most influential broadcasters are the public radio and TV stations operated by the Bosniak-Croat and Serb entities. These are effectively under the control of the ruling political parties and tend to reflect their views. The Office of the High Representative (OHR), the leading international civilian agency in Bosnia, oversaw the development of national public broadcasting. The OHR wanted to create a non-nationalist, civic media. There are more than 200 commercial radio and TV stations. They operate within a weak advertising market. But annual advertising revenues in broadcasting are still around 10 times the figure for print media. Sarajevo is home to Al-Jazeera Balkans TV, an offshoot of the Qatar-based pan-Arab news network. It broadcasts in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian. There is free access to local and global information sources. But media outlets and journalists are prone to pressure from state bodies and political parties in both the Bosniak-Croat and Serb entities. In 2015, US-based Freedom House categorised the media as "partly free". The human rights monitoring NGO noted that although the constitution guarantees freedom of the press, self-censorship is pervasive - few journalists are prepared to risk engaging in critical reporting, as such reporting tends to lead to lawsuits and the withdrawal of financial support. There are more than 2.3 million internet users (Internetlivestats.com, 2016) - a figure that represents 61.6% of the population. Online activity is concentrated among younger people and there is no filtering of online content. Social media has played a key role during public protests.
Former Worcestershire captain Norman Gifford has returned to New Road to help as a part-time spin-bowling coach. Gifford, 71, is working with England Lions all-rounder Moeen Ali, Shaaiq Choudhry and Brett D'Oliveira, grandson of his old New Road team-mate Basil. "We have enrolled the services of Norman to help out with our spin bowlers and he has been brilliant," said director of cricket Steve Rhodes. The former England spinner took 1,615 first-class wickets for the county. Gifford claimed 33 wickets in his 15 Tests, the majority of them between 1971 and 1973, having made his England debut against Australia in 1964. The Lancashire-born slow left-armer spent nine years as skipper at New Road, leading Worcestershire to the 1974 County Championship title. Gifford left New Road in 1982 to join neighbours Warwickshire, who he also skippered for two seasons, taking his haul of first-class wickets to 2,068. And he also came out of international retirement in the week of his 45th birthday to play two one-dayers in Sharjah in March 1985, taking 4-23 against Pakistan. Gifford's return to New Road came in the wake of delivering one of the eulogies for Basil D'Oliveira at Worcester Cathedral in late January, at his recently-departed county and country team-mate's memorial service. Gifford is also expected to find himself working with international cricket's most high profile spinner, Saeed Ajmal, this summer. The Pakistan test star, England's destroyer in the 3-0 series defeat in the United Arab Emirates, is due to rejoin Worcestershire for this summer's Twenty20.
Croatia's media enjoy a high degree of independence. Croatian Radio-TV, HRT, is the state-owned public broadcaster and is financed by advertising and a licence fee. Public TV is still the main source of news and information, but HRT is losing audience share and privately-owned Nova TV is now the top station. National commercial networks and dozens of private local TV stations compete for viewers. The cable and satellite market is well developed. There are three national public radio networks, four national commercial channels, regional public radios and more than 130 local and regional radios. In the newspaper sector, there are six national and four regional dailies. Austrian and German concerns have large stakes in the print media. One German and one Austrian company partially or fully fund over 90% of the print media. The tabloid, 24sata, is the best-selling newspaper, but most newspapers operate at a loss. Reporters face political pressure and intimidation, says US-based Freedom House. Reporters without Borders says key figures at HRT are "appointed by parliament. This gives the ruling party political control over broadcast content." Journalists covering organised crime and corruption are also at risk. The Croatian Journalists' Association has been campaigning for several years for defamation to be removed from the criminal code. Scores of journalists have been put on trial or convicted in recent years. Close to 2.8 million Croatians are online (Internetlivestats.com, 2014). There are around 1.6 million Facebook users. The telecom sector is the most developed in the region.
More than 50 Scottish companies are meeting in the Borders to look at ways to increase their share of the global mountain biking market. It has been estimated that biking accessories generate about £853m for the UK economy as a whole. The event at the Glentress Centre near Peebles is designed to encourage firms across the country to collaborate. David Smith of Scottish Enterprise said it showed Scotland's role as a "centre of excellence for mountain biking". The organisation is hosting the Celebrating Scottish Innovation in Mountain Biking event, along with the Scottish Mountain Bike Development Consortium (SMBDC), Sporting Chance Initiative as well as further and higher education institutions. It has attracted businesses from across the country including the likes of Livingston-based cycling apparel firm Endura Ltd. Mr Smith said: "Mountain biking currently generates £119m-a-year for the Scottish economy, with market share predicted to increase to £155m in the next five years - it's on target to become Scotland's most popular adventure activity after walking. "By bringing together a diverse range of companies to look at where these new product opportunities could come from, we can encourage innovative, quality, Scottish-made accessories that demonstrate why Scotland is a global destination and centre of excellence for mountain biking." Scotland is recognised as one of the world's leading locations for mountain biking, and was rated as a Global Superstar by the International Mountain Bicycling Association. Recent figures show that more than 1.3m visits are made to Scotland each year for mountain biking, nearly 600,000 of which are to sample purpose-built trails, such as the 7stanes in the south of Scotland.
Richard 'Kip' Carpenter, the creator of cult children's TV series Catweazle, has died at the age of 82. Carpenter wrote all 26 episodes of the 1970s show - about an "eccentric, dishevelled" time-travelling wizard - winning him international recognition and a Writers Guild award. He later wrote the 1980s hit ITV show Robin of Sherwood, first starring Michael Praed and then Jason Connery. Author Anthony Horowitz, who worked with Carpenter, called him a "mentor". Speaking in the Guardian  last year, Horowitz recalled how Carpenter gave him his first job in television. "I had absolutely no experience, had never written for TV, and really had no inclination to be a television writer. "But Richard took me on. I was an apprentice to him really; he was my mentor. "Working with Kip on Robin of Sherwood was the high point of my career, in terms of the fun and sheer energy," said Horowitz. Carpenter later established production company Gatetarn, along with producer Paul Knight and Sidney Cole, co-creating series including Dick Turpin, and its New Zealand-based follow-up The Adventurer. With a portfolio of work which included The Adventures of Black Beauty, The Famous Five and a TV adaptation of The Borrowers, he was honoured with a Children's Bafta in 2000. Plans for a big screen adaptation of Catweazle are understood to be under way. Carpenter also wrote novelisations of his many TV series including The Ghosts of Motley Hall and Smuggler. He is survived by his wife, Annabelle, two children and two grandchildren.
Private radio and TV stations provide stiff competition for their public rivals. Public broadcaster Ceska Televize (CT) operates two TV networks and a 24-hour news channel. Public radio, Cesky Rozhlas (CRo), operates three national networks and local services. Leading private TV channels Nova and Prima are foreign-owned and broadcast nationally. There are scores of privately-owned radio stations, including market leaders Impuls and Frekvence 1. BBC World Service is available on FM in many cities and towns. The global recession in 2008 began a process of the media returning to Czech ownership. In early 2014, Forbes.cz noted that eight out of the ten most influential figures in the media were Czech or Slovak. Most papers' paid-for circulations have practically halved over the last decade or so. Most titles have become 'prestige' projects for their owners, who have their own commercial and/or political agendas. In its most recent Freedom of the Press report, watchdog Freedom House gave the country a better ranking than France and the UK. Some Czech commentators questioned this positive scoring in view of media ownership becoming more concentrated and media barons getting involved in politics. Around 8.3 million Czechs were online by 2014 (internetlivestats.com). Around 30% of Czechs were using social media by 2013, with Facebook being the leading platform. Lide.cz is a domestic social media site. YouTube.cz is a popular entertainment source for younger Czechs. In June 2013 a study showed that those in the 15 - 34 age range watched it more than any domestic TV channel apart from Nova.
